The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Silver Ring Mystery, by Helen Wells

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Silver Ring Mystery
       The Vicki Barr Flight Stewardess Series #13

Author: Helen Wells

Release Date: November 4, 2016 [EBook #53448]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SILVER RING MYSTERY ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









_The_ CHERRY AMES _Stories_

  Cherry Ames, Student Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Senior Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Army Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Chief Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Flight Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Veterans’ Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Private Duty Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Visiting Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Cruise Nurse
  Cherry Ames at Spencer
  Cherry Ames, Night Supervisor
  Cherry Ames, Mountaineer Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Clinic Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Dude Ranch Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Rest Home Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Country Doctor’s Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Boarding School Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Department Store Nurse
  Cherry Ames, Camp Nurse
  Cherry Ames at Hilton Hospital


_The_ VICKI BARR _Flight Stewardess Series_

  Silver Wings for Vicki
  Vicki Finds the Answer
  The Hidden Valley Mystery
  The Secret of Magnolia Manor
  The Clue of the Broken Blossom
  Behind the White Veil
  The Mystery at Hartwood House
  Peril Over the Airport
  The Mystery of the Vanishing Lady
  The Search for the Missing Twin
  The Ghost at the Waterfall
  The Clue of the Gold Coin
  The Silver Ring Mystery




[Illustration: _“And of course I kept the ring,” Lucy said softly_]




  THE VICKI BARR FLIGHT STEWARDESS SERIES

         _THE SILVER RING MYSTERY_

               BY HELEN WELLS

               [Illustration]

             _GROSSET & DUNLAP_
                 PUBLISHERS
                 _New York_




     © BY GROSSET & DUNLAP, INC., 1960

           _All Rights Reserved_

  PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




  _The author acknowledges with thanks
  the generous co-operation of the Eastern
  Region Stewardess Division of American
  Airlines and Miss Mary Cody and Miss
  Joan McGuckin, Supervisors of Stewardesses,
  for the information given in the
  preparation of this book._




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                          PAGE

     I ABOARD THE ELECTRA             1

    II VICKI MEETS THE BRYANTS       10

   III THE STORY OF LUCY             20

    IV A PUZZLING DISCOVERY          38

     V THE GIRL IN THE PORTRAIT      50

    VI VICKI SEARCHES                63

   VII WHICH LUCY?                   76

  VIII A GAME OF WITS                95

    IX SECRETS AT MIDNIGHT          112

     X THE SIGNAL                   134

    XI ESCAPE                       155

   XII THE SILVER RINGS             159




CHAPTER I

_Aboard the Electra_


“That’s why,” Vicki explained to her family, “the Electra is so
challenging. Mary Carter warned us stewardesses, while she was
retraining us for the Electra, that this beauty flies so fast there’s
hardly time to get all our jobs done.”

“You mean it’s a hard assignment, don’t you?” said Ginny. She was
fourteen, and Vicki’s younger sister.

Their mother, Betty Barr, said, “I’m sure if I had your job on a
jet-prop--Or is it a jet? Which is it, Lewis?”

Professor Barr looked amused. “You know perfectly well. The all-jet
without propellers,” he said, “the Boeing 707, is used more for long
hauls--nonstop coast to coast, or across oceans. The Electra 188, with
jet engines _and_ propellers, is used mainly for intercity travel. I
trust I have the facts correct, Victoria.”

He smiled at Vicki who looked so much like him--fair hair, light-blue
eyes, the thoughtful Barr gaze--that it was a family joke.

“Well, anyhow,” said Vicki’s mother, “if _I_ had to get sixty-eight
passengers safely on, off, and fed, in two hours--Whew!”

“Fortunately I’m not going to have to do everything all by myself,”
Vicki answered. “Jean Cox and I will work the New York-Chicago-San
Francisco run together on the Electra.”

They were having a leisurely early lunch at home, at The Castle, before
Vicki started out for Chicago. It was Thursday, February twelfth,
Lincoln’s Birthday, an appropriate day to be in Lincoln’s state,
Illinois. The holiday explained why Mr. Barr was not teaching at nearby
State University that day. The holiday did _not_ account for Vicki’s
presence at home. As a flight stewardess, she often worked on holidays.

Vicki popped in and out of The Castle between assignments, whenever
she could. That wasn’t often. Perhaps now that Federal Airlines was
transferring her to the Electra and one of its transcontinental runs,
she might be lucky enough to see her family more often.

Her mother was wondering about the same thing. “Will your being based
in San Francisco mean that we won’t see much of you?”

Vicki went over her schedule again with her family. She and Jean Cox
would fly regularly with the same crew on the New York-Chicago-San
Francisco run, and return flight. They would have at least an
overnight stop in Chicago, and some rest days in New York and San
Francisco, “mostly in San Francisco where our plane will be serviced.”
Also, since passenger traffic was sometimes heavier in the East, Vicki
and Jean would occasionally fly the New York-Chicago and Chicago-New
York “turn-around” run. The fast cruising speed of the Electra--up to
five hundred miles per hour--made these schedules possible.

“Anyway, I’ll be in and out of Chicago,” Vicki told her family. “If I
haven’t time to run down to Fairview to see you, maybe you’ll drive up
to Chicago to see me?”

“I’ll come up,” her mother promised. “Now if you don’t start for
Chicago, young lady, the Electra may take off for New York without you.”

“Heaven forbid! I’ve been studying, practicing, and dreaming
jet-props!” So had her stewardess friends, so had pilots and
navigators--all of them had been training intensively for the new
aircraft at Federal Airlines’ schools in New York and Texas. “I
wouldn’t miss today for anything!”

Her family drove Vicki to the Fairview station in plenty of time for
the noon train to Chicago. Freckles, their spaniel, sensed Vicki’s
excitement and ran around the platform so wildly that for safety they
had to lock him in the car.

“Do you think, dear,” Mrs. Barr asked Vicki, “that you’ll meet any
especially interesting people on this new plane?”

“I wouldn’t be a bit surprised.”

They could hear the train coming. In another minute it pounded in
alongside the platform. Vicki’s mother and sister hugged her. “Good
luck! See you soon!” Mr. Barr picked up her overnight kit, helped her
aboard the train, and found her a seat. He bent over to kiss her.

“You look mighty little to be flying coast to coast, Victoria.”

“I feel like an eagle in the sky--you know, the words of the spiritual?
Dad! The train’s starting to move!”

He got off, and then her family was waving to her, and the train slid
quickly out of the station. She was on her way.

       *       *       *       *       *

By three o’clock Vicki was in Chicago, and a little before four
she reached Midway Airport. That allowed comfortably for an hour’s
preflight ground duties before departure time at five P.M. In the
stewardesses’ lounge, Vicki changed into her blue uniform and cap, then
picked up her topcoat, purse, and overnight kit. She walked over to the
operations area where she initialed the crew check-in sheet, wrote in
the time, and noticed that Jean Cox had signed in five minutes ago.

Vicki found Captain Jordan in the busy meteorologist’s room. Jean was
there, too.

“Good afternoon, Captain Jordan--Jean. Reporting in for our very first
Electra flight!”

The pilot, a graying, solidly built man in blue uniform, smiled at
her and Jean grinned. Jean Cox looked like a good-natured imp, with
her cropped brown hair and twinkling eyes. Vicki knew that her fellow
stewardess, despite the elfish grin, was absolutely reliable--just as
their million-mile Captain Tom Jordan was a rock of strength. He told
his two stewardesses:

“Dan McGovern will be our copilot, and Chuck Smith our navigator. Good
men, both of them. I expect the five of us will work together fine as a
unit. Now, then--”

Captain Jordan gave Vicki and Jean the flight plan and briefed them
on the route and the flight conditions for this trip. Vicki knew that
the passengers who asked questions about the flight might include
anyone from a businessman who flew his own private plane to an aviation
engineer, so she listened carefully. The pilot planned to fly above the
day’s overcast, at an altitude of around 22,000 feet. “Our cruising
speed will be about 400 to 420 miles per hour,” he said.

Captain Jordan then handed Vicki and Jean the Stewardess Briefing
Book, which they quickly read and initialed. He answered a couple of
questions for them, discussed the ETA--estimated time of arrival--and
said, “See you aboard.”

“Aye, aye, sir,” said Jean, for both of them.

The two girls hurried back to the stewardesses’ lounge. There they
prepared the necessary report forms for the trip.

“Do I look all right, Vic?” Jean asked.

They both checked their appearance--a stewardess had to be perfectly
groomed and turned out--before leaving the operations area of the
building.

They hurried down a flight of stairs into Hangar One. In the vast high
shed, Captain Jordan had two men in blue uniform with him. The five of
them met beside a DC-7 which a repair crew was tuning up. The engines
roared; Captain Jordan had to shout.

“Miss Vicki Barr, Miss Jean Cox, this is our first officer, Dan
McGovern--”

The girls shook hands with their copilot, who was a large, quiet,
serious-looking man.

“--and our navigator, Chuck Smith.”

Chuck Smith was young, small, and wiry, with an ingratiating grin.

“See you aboard,” they all said.

The two stewardesses went outdoors onto the windy airfield. A little
distance away their immense silver Electra stood waiting for them. The
plane was 104 feet long with a 99-foot wing span. Its sheer size took
their breath away.

Vicki and Jean had forty minutes’ work to do before the passengers
came aboard. They had many things to check--it would be just too bad
if, once aloft, they discovered there was not enough water for making
coffee, or found the ventilation or heating system wasn’t functioning
perfectly. Hurrying up and down the long cabin aisle, they took pride
in their handsome Electra. Wide reclining chairs were upholstered in
blue, in beige, and a few in pumpkin color; the silver-beige walls
and curtains and coral-colored carpet harmonized. Vicki took special
satisfaction in the semicircular observation lounge with its wide
windows in the rear of the plane.

While Jean checked their service kit, all emergency equipment, cabin
and lavatory lights, seat belts, and a dozen or more other items,
Vicki was busy in the buffet area amidship. The two tall, wide,
metal buffets, facing each other, held drawers and compartments
for everything she and Jean would need to store, heat, and serve
sixty-eight dinners, and to brew gallons of fresh coffee. Vicki found
it a big job to check every item. Next, the caterer brought aboard
precooked dinners on individual trays, water, bags of coffee, and Vicki
checked all items off on her report form. She called through the open
service door to the commissary men on the ground:

“We’re short one dinner.” She saw the fueling crew hosing kerosene for
the plane’s four jet engines into the storage tanks inside the wings.
Daylight was fading; the first of their passengers were gathering
behind the wire gate, looking on.

Captain Jordan came aboard and went into the cockpit. In a minute or
two his copilot and navigator followed. The cockpit door stood open
until departure time; Vicki could see the complex instrument panel, and
the three airmen at work with their air maps and weather charts. She
turned on the music--a little early, but they all were keyed up about
this flight, and it helped to have lilting music fill the cabin.

Twenty minutes later Vicki and Jean were breathless but ready. They
repowdered their faces, and smiled expectantly at each other. Jean said:

“I must say you look poised and calm.”

“Calm? Who, me? Well, here’s wishing us good luck.”

Jean said a fervent amen, and then pressed down on the switch which
released a folding staircase from the plane to the ground. Slowly the
stairs for the passengers’ use dropped down into place. Then Jean
took up her post just inside the main entrance door, to greet their
passengers. Vicki stood smiling in the aft cabin to greet them and
assist them in getting seated.

Mothers with babies and small children straggled aboard first. Vicki
directed them to window seats in the quieter locations.

“Miss, will you be able to heat my baby’s bottle?” one mother asked her.

“Yes, I’ll be glad to.”

Vicki turned to a young couple who looked like honeymooners. Their
faces shone, and the girl wore flowers. “Welcome aboard,” Vicki said to
them, and nearly added, “Congratulations.” She suggested the forward
cabin compartment which was smaller and more private.

Most of the passengers, many of them businessmen with brief cases,
found seats by themselves in the large main cabin and, beyond the
buffet area, in the aft cabin. For several minutes the wide aisle
swarmed with people.

“Please be seated,” Vicki said to them as they passed her, “and then
I’ll hang up your coats.”

A white-haired, well-dressed couple came very slowly down the aisle.
They must be in their mid-sixties, Vicki thought. The elderly woman
looked pleasant, but the heavy-set man was scowling and grumbling about
something. He had a look of authority, of command.

Vicki went forward to help them. “Good afternoon. Would you like to sit
here?”

The man nodded curtly. He helped his wife into the window seat, then
placed her hatbox up on the luggage rack.

“If you don’t mind, sir,” said Vicki, “may I put that hatbox in the
closet? It might bounce off the rack during flight, and the sharp
corners might hurt somebody.”

The elderly man sat down as if he had not heard her. Then he remarked,
“The hatbox can stay where it is.”

Vicki gulped, and said with her sweetest smile, “Yes, of course, if you
prefer.” The man’s wife half smiled at her as if to say, “You mustn’t
mind.”




CHAPTER II

_Vicki Meets the Bryants_


All the passengers were aboard now. Jean had closed the main cabin door.

Captain Jordan flashed on the “No Smoking--Fasten Seat Belts” sign.
Vicki went up and down the aisle checking to see that passengers had
fastened their seat belts. The airplane began to vibrate. She made her
welcoming announcement over the plane’s public-address system, adding,
“Captain Jordan will keep you informed of flight data en route.” Then
both stewardesses found seats--the observation lounge was the only
vacant place--and strapped in for the take-off.

Suddenly the Electra was taxiing and in instants they were racing past
the end of the runway. Even more suddenly--no wail, no warm-up of the
engines--zoom! Whoosh! Up they went!

Jean and Vicki were so amazed that they stared at each other. “Jet
engines!” they exclaimed. “Look at our rate of climb! And steep--almost
straight up!”

The plane tore into the sky. The “No Smoking--Fasten Seat Belts” sign
went off. Here in the cabin there were music, air at a comfortable
temperature and pressure, newspapers, magazines, and pillows which
Vicki and Jean distributed. The captain’s call button sounded on the
board in the buffet area, and he spoke over the plane’s communications
system to the two hostesses.

“Everybody comfortable?”

“Yes, Captain,” said Vicki.

“You can tell our passengers we reached our cruising altitude within
five minutes after take-off. Anyone especially interesting aboard?”

“We’ll tell you soon, sir,” said Vicki.

The passengers were interested in the Electra and asked questions.
With sixty-eight aboard, Vicki and Jean could not stop to visit. But
they chatted with the passengers while they set up at each seat the
tray tables for dinner and spread linen tablecloths. The white-haired
couple, Vicki learned, were Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Bryant. The lady
told her this; the elderly man had fallen asleep, as if overtired. One
genial man was a movie star, perennially young, even though he had
five children. Several passengers recognized him, judging by their
interested glances. He asked Vicki several stiff technical questions
about the jet-propelled Electra.

From across the aisle a woman touched Vicki’s sleeve. “My two
youngsters are getting hungry, I’m afraid. Could you please--?”

“Yes, indeed, we’ll serve dinner soon. And we always serve the children
first.”

Vicki made her way along the slightly swaying plane toward the buffet
area. She was waylaid by only three passengers on the way. One man
wanted to know if there was a razor aboard which he could borrow.
There was. A woman asked Vicki how to adjust the individual air vents
and reading lights. And a determined-looking man announced to the
stewardess that he was a vegetarian.

“Y-yes, sir,” said Vicki, and made her smiling way to the sky kitchen.
Once inside the closed accordion curtains, Vicki lost her smile and her
face became as desperate as Jean’s, in her struggle with several oven
drawers full of turkey dinners.

“Hi,” Jean greeted her. “Better put your smock on, like me. I’m scared
we’ll still be serving dinners ten minutes after landing in New York.”

“We’ll do fine,” Vicki said without believing it, and started to make
coffee.

“Parsley, parsley, where’s the parsley?” Jean muttered. “Somewhere in
this overgrown filing cabinet--oh, yes, here.”

“Can we spare extra rolls for some hungry kids?” Vicki peered in the
roll warmer. “Yes, we can.”

She collected nine rolls on a tray, one for each of the children
aboard. On her way back to the buffet area with her empty tray, Vicki
noticed that something was wrong in the Bryants’ area. Two men
passengers were standing over Mr. Bryant, one loosening his collar and
tie, and the call button rang. Vicki hurried to them. The people nearby
were considerately snuffing out their cigarettes and opening air vents.

“My husband has a heart condition,” Mrs. Bryant said anxiously to
Vicki. “I don’t think he’s having a heart attack, but he--”

Vicki concealed her alarm and looked at Mr. Bryant who was lying back
weakly in his chair. He was conscious but exhausted, breathing with
some difficulty. His face was pale and sweaty.

“Uncomfortable--” he muttered.

“He needs oxygen,” Vicki said. “I’ll get the oxygen bottle, Mrs.
Bryant. Is he in any pain?... No? That’s good. I’ll be right back.”
To the two men standing by rather uselessly, Vicki said, “Thank you,
gentlemen. I am trained to give first aid.”

The men nodded and resumed their seats. Vicki sped to the storage
compartment, being careful to look calm for the benefit of the other
passengers, and hurried back down the aisle carrying a walk-around
oxygen bottle and a blanket. She paused a moment at the buffet area.

“Jean, is there a doctor aboard?”

“Not among my passengers. Who’s sick?”

“That elderly man. Mr. Bryant. Heart condition.”

“Want me to notify Captain Jordan for you?” Jean asked.

“Yes, phone him. I’ll report soon. Please start serving dinners, Jean.
We must keep it pleasant aboard just as usual.”

Vicki hastened back to the Bryants. She covered the man with the
blanket.

“Miss Barr, I must tell you”--Mrs. Bryant made an effort to control
her trembling voice and hands--“that my husband is more exhausted than
ill. He had three quite tiring days in Chicago on business, and it’s
been hard on him.”

Vicki said soothingly, “Certain people need extra oxygen at high
altitudes, where the air is thin. Our cabin air is pressurized, but for
someone who is a cardiac, and for other special needs, we carry extra
oxygen.”

As she talked, she placed the oxygen bottle on Mr. Bryant’s lap; he was
able to hold it steady. Vicki opened the bottle’s knob, then adjusted
the constant-flow mask snugly over Mr. Bryant’s mouth and nose.

Almost at once his breathing grew easier. A little color returned to
his face. When he seemed comfortable again, Vicki removed the mask and
closed the knob. Just the same, she was worried. He was still weak, and
he was an elderly person with an impaired heart.

“Mr. Bryant, Mrs. Bryant, if you wish to have a doctor’s care within
just a few minutes,” Vicki said earnestly, “we can arrange it for you.
The pilot can make an emergency landing. Captain Jordan will radio
ahead to the nearest airport to have a doctor and ambulance waiting to
meet our plane.”

Mrs. Bryant murmured, “That’s wonderful. What do you think, Marshall?”

“No. Not necessary. Make myself conspicuous. Inconvenience all these
people.”

“Not at all, sir,” Vicki said. “Captain Jordan probably will be able to
make up the time.”

“No. I’m all right. Only a weak spell. Thank you, anyway.”

Vicki asked respectfully, “Did a doctor give his permission for you to
fly, sir?”

“The doctor most certainly did _not_--” Mrs. Bryant started, but the
man interrupted. “Fool doctors would keep me in a rocking chair. I have
to do what _I_ think is right.”

Vicki mentioned briefly the regulation for Federal and all airlines: a
person with a serious heart condition was not supposed to fly unless
he had a doctor’s written permission to do so, on the grounds that the
trip was necessary, and unless he had someone to accompany him who
could nurse him. The airlines relied on cardiacs not to board a plane
without such certification.

“If we had known in advance, Mr. Bryant,” Vicki said, “we would have
been obliged to keep you off the plane.”

“Well, you took excellent care of me, young lady. It worked out, didn’t
it?”

Mrs. Bryant shook her head. “You are so self-willed, Marshall. So
stubborn.”

Vicki turned to her. “The oxygen I gave your husband is only first aid,
you know. Do _you_ feel a doctor should see him immediately?”

“Well, I’ve seen him have worse spells than this one--not in the air,
either.” The elderly lady hesitated. “He does seem much better now--”

Vicki said that it was really up to the captain of the plane to decide
whether to make an emergency landing. She excused herself, went forward
past curious passengers, unlocked the cabin door, and stepped up into
the cockpit.

In the cabin dozens of black-and-white dials on the instrument panel
glowed, needles flickered, the radar screen flashed. At a signal from
Captain Jordan, the copilot took over the controls.

“Well, Vicki? How is that man?”

“He came fairly close to fainting, Captain Jordan. He’s elderly, a
little overweight, and he has a heart condition. However, since he’s
had therapeutic oxygen, he’s not in any distress. And his wife seems
fairly satisfied with the way he looks now.”

“I’d much rather land than take chances with a passenger’s life.”
Captain Jordan looked at his wrist watch, thinking. “I’ll tell you
what. Observe him for ten minutes and if he shows any sign of relapse
call me. We can come down at Clarkville. In any case, Vicki, we’re
going to have a doctor and an ambulance on hand at New York. We’ll
radio ahead to La Guardia Airport.”

“Thank you, Captain,” said Vicki.

“That’s all for now, Vicki. Keep me informed.”

Vicki returned to the Bryants. Mr. Bryant was sitting up erect now; it
was a relief to see that. She told them of the captain’s decision.

“I am so grateful!” Mrs. Bryant exclaimed. “I’m sure we won’t need to
make a special stop.”

Mr. Bryant apparently was not a man to yield a point easily, but he did
say, “Very good of you airlines people. Very good indeed.”

Vicki brought the Bryants their dinners right away, and both old people
perked up as they ate the hot food. She raced through serving all her
other passengers. Jean cheerfully doubled up on jobs, so that Vicki
finished her in-flight chores on time.

“Do you know we haven’t sat down once since take-off?” Jean said
breathlessly.

“Jean, you’ve been an angel on this trip! For a while there I thought
you had four hands.”

“Save the compliments. We’re coming in for a landing in twenty minutes.”

Twenty-one minutes later they were down at La Guardia Airport. Vicki
summoned the passenger agent. He gave Mr. Bryant his arm on the way
out of the plane to the waiting ambulance. Vicki escorted Mrs. Bryant,
walking slowly.

Vicki waited for the Bryants outside the ambulance while the doctor
checked over the elderly man. She hated to leave Jean alone to say
good-by to the other passengers and pick up in the cabin afterward, but
she’d make it up to Jean some other time. The passenger agent had sent
a man to locate the Bryants’ car and chauffeur. He would bring the car
onto the airfield as near to the ambulance as possible.

The doctor stepped out and said to Vicki:

“All right, stewardess, he may go home. I think it’s safe for this
gentleman to drive to the city now.”

He helped Mrs. Bryant down out of the ambulance, then Mr. Bryant.
Their car pulled up at that moment. Captain Jordan came hurrying over,
carrying his flight papers.

“Miss Barr, are both Bryants all right?”

“Yes, Captain. Tired but all right.”

The Bryants thanked him, and he went off. They particularly thanked
Vicki. They climbed into their car, and asked Vicki if she wished to
drive into metropolitan New York with them.

“It’s kind of you, but I still have some duties here.”

“Then you must come to lunch,” Mrs. Bryant said. “You’ve been a
wonderful help, and I want a chance to thank you properly.”

“I was only doing my job,” said Vicki.

“Come to lunch tomorrow,” Mr. Bryant barked at her. “Can you?”

Vicki was so startled she stammered, “Y-y-yes, th-thank you.”

Mrs. Bryant smiled, and told her the address. “At twelve, Miss
Barr?” Then she said an odd thing. “You know, my dear, we have a
granddaughter whom we’ve never seen. Lucy. I hope she’s like you.”

Vicki must have looked puzzled, because Mrs. Bryant smiled again.
“We’ll talk about that tomorrow. Good-by for now, little Miss Barr.”




CHAPTER III

_The Story of Lucy_


Vicki went to the Bryants’ house not knowing quite what to expect.
It was Friday the thirteenth, but since she was not foolish enough
to be superstitious, the date alone did not account for her sense of
something special about to happen.

“Well, I can expect lunch and conversation,” Vicki thought, and went
up the white marble steps of the Bryants’ house. She was a little
intimidated by its grandeur, and by the butler who admitted her. “My
goodness, this is much too grand for _me_,” Vicki thought. “They must
be awfully rich.”

The butler said, “Who shall I say is calling?”

“Miss Victoria Barr.” Vicki tried to stand up taller than she was and
look older. It never worked.

“Oh, yes, Miss Barr, you are expected.”

She gave the butler her coat and followed him from the entrance hall,
past a formal high-ceilinged living room, and into a big, sunny
sitting room. It was cheerful in here, with flowered chintzes,
green plants, and several extraordinarily beautiful parakeets in
cages shaped like pagodas and dollhouses. Vicki exclaimed aloud “Oh!
Lovely!”--without meaning to, just as the butler announced her.

Mrs. Bryant was sitting half hidden in an immense wing chair. She put
aside the needlepoint she was working on and made a point of getting up
to greet her young guest.

“How nice to see you again, Miss Barr. You were so busy yesterday on
your plane that there was almost no chance to visit with you.”

“_I_ kept you busy, for one thing,” Mr. Bryant said. “A tiresome old
codger, wasn’t I, young lady?”

Vicki smiled shyly, and said Mr. and Mrs. Bryant were kind to let her
come. She asked Mr. Bryant how he was feeling.

“Better, thanks, better. Oh, I’m perfectly all right!” He started to
pace up and down.

Mrs. Bryant changed the subject. She invited Vicki to sit next to
her on the couch in the winter sunshine, and they chatted about the
Electra. Mr. Bryant joined in with a question or two. He seemed less
forbidding today. Still, Vicki thought, this imposing man would
probably never be easy to get along with. She’d as soon attempt to be
friends with a polar bear--he reminded her of an old, still powerful
bear with his heavy, rolling gait and thatch of yellowish-white hair.

“Where’s Dorn?” he demanded. “Not here yet?”

His wife said, “Mr. Dorn telephoned to say he will be a little late. It
was unavoidable, dear.”

“Humph. Well, I’ll lie down again for a few minutes. Excuse me,
ladies.” He abruptly thumped out of the room.

Mrs. Bryant waited until he was out of earshot, then smiled at Vicki.

“When I invited you to lunch yesterday, Miss Barr,” said Mrs. Bryant,
“I thought you would be our only guest. But this morning a young lawyer
who is doing a particularly important piece of work for us telephoned
and asked whether he couldn’t see us about noon today. So he’ll be here
for lunch, too. I’m sure you and I will have our visit, anyway.”

Vicki was a little disappointed, and offered to leave rather than
intrude.

“No, indeed!” Mrs. Bryant exclaimed. “I want you to stay. Mr. Dorn is
going to tell us about Lucy--our granddaughter whom we’ve never seen.”
She looked very thoughtful. “Does that seem odd to you?”

Vicki was not quite sure what to answer. “Unless,” she said, “your
granddaughter has always lived at a great distance from you.”

“Yes, she has. In every sense. Tell me, Miss Barr, in the course of
your stewardess work are you ever in San Francisco?”

“I’ll be in and out of San Francisco all the time, now that I’m based
there.”

“That’s extremely interesting.” But Mrs. Bryant did not say why. “Well.
Shall we look at my parakeets?”

Vicki walked along with Mrs. Bryant and admired the exquisite birds in
their cages. Her elderly hostess pointed out the birds’ markings in
every tone of blue and rose and green. Yet her mind seemed to be on
something else.

“I hope you won’t find it tiresome at lunch, Vicki, listening to a
conversation about a girl you know nothing about.”

“What is Lucy like?” Vicki asked.

Mrs. Bryant said helplessly, “I don’t know. It _is_ odd, isn’t it?
Our daughter’s daughter, and we don’t even know what she looks like.
Except for an old snapshot. Lucy was ten when it was taken, and she’s
twenty-one now.”

From a desk drawer Mrs. Bryant took a small, faded snapshot, in a
frame, and handed it to Vicki. Vicki studied it. The little girl’s face
was rather blurred. She could have been any little girl sitting on a
porch step. Her hair was either dark blond or light brown; it was hard
to tell which.

“I suppose Lucy’s hair might be darker by now,” said Mrs. Bryant, as
Vicki gave her back the snapshot. “Our daughter Eleanor wrote in one
of her rare letters that Lucy had my disposition. They named her Lucy
after me, in spite of--everything. But I must be boring you.”

“I’m very much interested, Mrs. Bryant.”

“Well, I _am_ rather keyed up about Mr. Dorn’s visit. So many old
memories come to mind today. The silver rings, for one thing. I hadn’t
thought about them in years. There are only two like them. Lucy has one
and I have the other.”

Vicki glanced at Mrs. Bryant’s hand. Her hostess noticed.

“No, I’ve put mine away. I never wear rings of any kind,” Mrs. Bryant
said. “They annoy me. But this pair of silver rings has an interesting
history.”

They had an identical lacelike, open design. Mrs. Bryant had long ago
given one ring to her daughter Eleanor, and Eleanor in turn had given
the ring to _her_ daughter, young Lucy.

“Almost all Mr. Bryant and I know about our granddaughter is that she
has the ring. We had a few facts about her schooling and a sketchy
description of her. Eleanor wrote us those things before she died.”
Mrs. Bryant looked down at her tightly clasped hands. “As for the
letters from Lucy’s father--” Mrs. Bryant stared past Vicki, past the
birds. “We never answered certain of those letters and we were wrong.
So terribly wrong!”

Then the whole grievous story of Lucy came tumbling out. Mrs. Bryant,
in telling Vicki, tried hard not to blame her husband. But Vicki
understood that Marshall Bryant was a man who valued money and
important connections above all else. Mrs. Bryant could not cope with
his domineering ways.

[Illustration: _Mrs. Bryant handed the faded snapshot to Vicki_]

The Bryants had planned a brilliant marriage for their only child. They
were bitterly disappointed when Eleanor married against their wishes a
boy who had little money and limited education. They felt, unjustly,
that Jack was a fortune hunter. Marshall Bryant made several attempts
to break up the marriage. When he failed, he disowned his daughter.
He was determined that Jack Rowe should never get hold of the Bryant
money, no matter what the penalty to Eleanor or to any children Eleanor
would have.

The young couple moved to California “--to get as far away from us as
possible, I suppose,” said Mrs. Bryant, and also because Jack had job
opportunities there. As for Jack’s family, they were scattered over the
United States and were not in touch.

The young couple made several overtures to the Bryants, especially
after their daughter was born. They named her Lucy after her
grandmother. But the old couple refused any reconciliation. They never
saw their granddaughter. “I wanted to, but Mr. Bryant was adamant. No
one can blame Eleanor and Jack for feeling resentful.” A rupture and
silence of many years ensued. Once Mrs. Bryant wrote to her daughter,
offering aid for small Lucy, but Eleanor never answered.

When young Lucy’s mother died a few years ago, her father wrote this
news to the grandparents and asked if they wished to attend the
funeral. Marshall Bryant decided that they would not go. Mrs. Bryant
murmured, “It was hard to lose Eleanor without ever seeing her again.”
Jack Rowe had suggested that the Bryants might, at long last, wish to
see their granddaughter. But Marshall Bryant hinted that Rowe’s motive
was a desire to gain their fortune. Young Lucy’s father, as a result,
felt freshly antagonized, and wrote them a bitter letter. Once more the
two families ceased to communicate.

Recently, within the past year, Marshall Bryant had developed a severe
heart condition. “He’s still active,” said Mrs. Bryant, “but he may not
have long to live. This knowledge has--has modified his personality.
He is more concerned than ever about what will become of his fortune
after he and I pass away. I am afraid he is not a charitable enough man
to leave the bulk of it to institutions for--as he says--strangers to
enjoy. Also, he now feels great remorse for disowning Eleanor, and for
refusing any contact with her daughter.”

As for herself, Mrs. Bryant said, she had grieved for years about the
family rupture. For a long time she encouraged Marshall Bryant to make
amends for the past. Finally, this past Christmas Day, they decided to
find their granddaughter, Lucy Rowe, and arrange for her to inherit the
Bryant fortune.

“_If_ Lucy wishes to live with us, we’d be so happy.”

“I’m so glad,” Vicki said softly, “that you’re trying to find her.”

“You’re right to say ‘trying,’ because all we definitely know about
her is her last address in San Francisco. That’s the one on Jack Rowe’s
letter five years ago.” For a moment Mrs. Bryant closed her eyes. Then
she said matter-of-factly, “A five-year-old address and an old snapshot
aren’t much to go on, are they? That’s why were relying on Mr. Dorn to
locate Lucy for us.”

Mrs. Bryant explained that she and her husband were too elderly,
and he too ill, to travel to San Francisco and search for the girl
themselves. Also, Mrs. Bryant said, they hesitated to approach Lucy
directly, either in person or by mail. “After all the antagonism which
my husband--and I, too--showed them, Eleanor and Jack naturally felt
antagonistic toward us. I’m afraid some of that feeling may have been
instilled in Lucy. She might not be glad to see her grandparents.”

So Marshall Bryant had engaged his law firm to locate young Lucy
and bring her East. He planned to transfer a generous part of the
inheritance to her immediately. The law firm assigned Thurman Dorn, a
young man, to do the traveling and investigating involved in finding
Lucy. Mr. Bryant was pleased with the choice. Though Thurman Dorn was
relatively new in the firm, his uncle, now dead, had for many years
done fine work for Mr. Bryant through the same law firm.

“My husband and I feel we know young Thurman Dorn,” said Mrs. Bryant.
“Our lawyers have told us that he came from Chicago, his home
town, with the highest recommendation from one of his law school
professors.” She mentioned the name of the law firm, Steele and Wilbur.
Vicki recognized it as a respected company. “Mr. Dorn has persuaded us
to stay entirely in the background and to let him act as intermediary
with Lucy. I do think that’s the most discreet way in such a delicate
situation.”

_A painful situation for a sick man and his elderly wife_, Vicki
thought. She said, “I do hope Mr. Dorn’s search will be successful in
every way.”

“Thank you, my dear. Mr. Dorn was in San Francisco three or four weeks
ago, and got his search for Lucy under way. Unfortunately he could not
find her on that trip--she has been away--but perhaps he has some other
leads or news to tell us about today.”

“Oh! Do you think he’ll bring Lucy with him?”

Mrs. Bryant smiled shakily. “I’m afraid to hope for so much. Let’s go
find my husband. He’s feeling anxious, too.”

When Thurman Dorn arrived a few minutes later, he was alone. Vicki
was impressed by his air of professional competence, and by his
personal dignity. He was about twenty-seven, a formal, cool young man,
evidently highly educated, very correct in his manners and attire.
His meticulously tailored gray suit, his British-looking mustache,
the stiff way he stood, reminded Vicki of a fashion plate. Or perhaps
of a stone statue. She wished someone less formal, less unsentimental
were to bridge the gap between young Lucy Rowe and her grandparents.
Well, perhaps it took someone as cool, deliberate, and as obviously
hard-headed as Mr. Dorn to trace Lucy in the first place. Vicki could
see how highly Marshall Bryant valued this young lawyer.

Mrs. Bryant introduced Vicki and Thurman Dorn. He said “how do you
do” to her with a delightful little bow and smile, and remarked--when
Mrs. Bryant said, “Vicki Barr is a flight stewardess with Federal
Airlines”--that he was an air-travel enthusiast. However, he quickly
turned away, and had little further to say to Vicki during lunch. She
was sure that Mrs. Bryant’s mention of her work did not interest him
and probably never registered with him at all.

He was busy describing to Mr. Bryant--and to Mrs. Bryant, too, though
secondarily--the progress of the search for Lucy in San Francisco.

“Now, Mr. Bryant, and Mrs. Bryant, you already know that this search is
not proceeding as easily and quickly as we would wish,” Thurman Dorn
said. “Reaching Miss Lucy takes time and patience. So will effecting a
reconciliation.”

The elderly couple listened to him, their hopes visibly rising and
falling as he spoke.

“You know that I made only partial progress when, at your request, I
visited San Francisco for a week, and personally conducted a search for
your granddaughter.”

“I remember receiving your bills from the St. Clair Hotel,” Mr. Bryant
said dryly.

Young Dorn accepted this with a deferential smile. “And unfortunately I
had to come back and tell you the disappointing news that by the time I
had located Lucy’s present home and work addresses, she had just gone
off for a trip. For, I believe, a month or more.”

Mrs. Bryant turned toward Vicki. “At least Mr. Dorn learned that Lucy
has gone traveling with respectable friends, another girl and the
girl’s mother.”

Mr. Bryant looked up from serving himself seconds from the dish the
maid offered. “Well, sir, it’s about a month now since you’ve been out
there. You say Lucy will be back in San Francisco soon. How soon can
you go out there again, and get on with this job?”

“Very soon, I hope, sir,” Dorn said. “Although it would be a waste of
my time and your money to wait around San Francisco until Miss Lucy
returns.”

“Don’t see how a girl who you say is a secretary can afford to stay
away longer than a month,” Marshall Bryant grumbled. “Dorn, are you
certain that this Lucy Rowe is actually our granddaughter?”

“No, I’m not certain. It’s only a reasonable _presumption_ at this
point, Mr. Bryant. Let me actually see and talk to the girl. I want
to question her--yes, discreetly--about certain particulars of the
Bryant family history, which she would be likely to know. I want to see
whether she has any of your old letters, or photographs of yourselves
or your daughter Eleanor. That brings me to my reason, or one of the
reasons, for asking you to let me come today.”

“The name Lucy Rowe isn’t so unusual,” Mr. Bryant interrupted. “Might
be more than one girl by that name in a city as large as San Francisco.”

“Exactly my view, too, sir,” said Mr. Dorn. “You have told me many
details of the family history and shown me documents, but a few
questions occur to me. Also, it would help in proving _this_ Lucy
Rowe’s identity if you could let me really study those documents, and
study any letters in your daughter Eleanor’s handwriting or any family
photographs. If you happen to have any available that I could examine,
say, overnight--or for a few hours this afternoon--”

“Good idea,” said Marshall Bryant. “Plenty of those things in the safe,
right here in the house. I’ll lend them to you overnight or for a day
or two. Whatever you say.”

“That will be a help,” said Mr. Dorn. “I’ll return them to you
promptly.”

One thing puzzled Vicki. Why had no one at the luncheon table mentioned
Jack Rowe, the girl’s father? She murmured her question to Mrs. Bryant.

“Because Lucy’s father died two years ago in an auto accident,” Mrs.
Bryant answered her. “Lucy did not write and tell us. Lucy has never
written to us, except one or two Christmas letters when she was a
child--which my husband asked me not to answer.” Mrs. Bryant sighed.
“So we had no way of knowing about Jack until Mr. Dorn investigated and
reported to us about three weeks ago. I’m sorry about Jack, if only
because his passing has left Lucy entirely alone in the world.”

“She has you and her grandfather,” Vicki said.

“_If_ we can find her, and _if_ she can forget old difficulties.
However”--the elderly woman brightened--“on the basis of what he’s
already learned, Mr. Dorn is hopeful that everything will work out
well.” Then she said, “Oh, Mr. Dorn! Didn’t you say you had some
further word about Lucy?”

“Yes, Mrs. Bryant. I’ve had a letter from one of her friends whom
I was unable to meet in person. Her friend writes that Lucy is an
accomplished swimmer and horsewoman. You know how Californians go in
for sports and outdoor living. Her friend also wrote my firm--sorry I
forgot to bring the letter--that Miss Lucy is fond of birds and knows
something about them.”

“She’ll be interested in your parakeets,” Mr. Bryant said to his wife,
“and she’ll enjoy the swimming pool.”

“Let’s hope so. We old people might be dull company for her. She sounds
like a delightful girl, Mr. Dorn.”

The lawyer said, “From everything I’ve learned so far, she sounds like
a charming girl, and a girl of considerable character.”

Marshall Bryant looked gratified, while his wife looked so eager that
Vicki felt almost afraid for her. How every detail which Mr. Dorn was
able to supply increased their desire to meet their granddaughter! How
disappointed they would be if Lucy were not all they wanted her to be,
or if--Heaven forbid--Dorn could not locate their granddaughter after
all.

As they were rising from the dining table Mrs. Bryant reminded the
lawyer about the silver ring. “If you want another look at it, it’s in
the safe, too.”

“Thank you, Mrs. Bryant. I _will_ examine it again. It will be
interesting to learn whether Lucy Rowe still has the silver ring which
is twin to yours.”

“Now, young man, how soon are you going back to San Francisco?” Mr.
Bryant pressed him. “How about this week?”

The lawyer was inclined to wait until the next week, in order to
be sure that Lucy Rowe was back in San Francisco. He offered to
telegraph her employers and friends there to learn if and when she had
returned. This was reasonable, the Bryants had to agree, but they were
disappointed about the delay.

“I am sorry about the delay, too,” said the lawyer, “but let us make
haste slowly. Let’s be a little cautious and discreet. There is a large
inheritance involved here, you _are_ well known, and if any false
moves were made, they’d invite a lot of publicity--newspaper stories,
pictures in the paper, and so forth.”

Mr. Bryant made a gesture of distaste, while Mrs. Bryant pretended to
shudder. There was a moment’s awkwardness. The lawyer turned to Vicki
and said:

“I understand that you--ah--were of service to Mr. Bryant yesterday
when he was taken ill.”

“Not at all,” said Vicki. “I’m just sorry Mr. Bryant didn’t feel well
enough to enjoy his flight on the Electra. Mr. Dorn, when you fly out
to the West Coast do you go on the Electra, via Chicago?”

She said it only to make conversation, thinking someday Dorn might be
one of her passengers. But suddenly his expression changed. She was
surprised at the odd look on his face. Was he thinking of something
else?

Mrs. Bryant said, “I believe, Mr. Dorn, you told us your mother still
lives in Chicago?”

“Yes, I sometimes go home week ends to see her. Very occasionally.”

“Of course. Well--I think my husband is waiting to see you.”

“Oh, yes. Will you excuse me, Mrs. Bryant? Miss--ah--” He had forgotten
her name. The young lawyer followed Mr. Bryant into the library.

Vicki felt that it was time to say good-by to her hostess. But Mrs.
Bryant led her back into the room with the parakeets. By now the sun
had moved to the far end of the room, and the birds were asleep. Mrs.
Bryant took Vicki’s hand.

“I hope all this talk about our granddaughter wasn’t dull for you.”

“On the contrary, Mrs. Bryant! I couldn’t help thinking ‘Suppose it
were _my_ grandparents whom I’d never seen, who were looking for me--’”

“You’re sympathetic, Vicki. I wonder--You’re going to be in San
Francisco often?” Vicki nodded. “Then I wonder whether I could ask you
to do me a great favor--but only if it won’t take too much of your
time.”

Vicki said, and meant it, that if the favor had anything to do with
Lucy, she would be only too happy to give it her free time.

Mrs. Bryant smiled. “Then I wish very much that you’d see whether _you_
can learn anything further about our granddaughter. While I have every
confidence in Mr. Dorn and his careful, discreet approach, this delay
is very hard. Even another week or ten days seem such a long time to
wait.”

“I’ll be in San Francisco day after tomorrow,” Vicki said.

“Wonderful. If Lucy is back by then, won’t you try to telephone her and
give her my love? All I have is her last address in Sutro Heights in
the suburbs, it’s five years old--I think Mr. Dorn mentioned that she
had moved in with friends in the city, in order to be nearer her place
of employment. I wish I had thought to write down that firm name, but
we are leaving everything, all the details, to Mr. Dorn.”

“Do you think Mr. Dorn will consider that I’m interfering? I wouldn’t
want to cause any--any complications for him.”

“I don’t see how you could.” Mrs. Bryant went to her desk for Lucy’s
last address, and copied it for Vicki. “It might be more tactful,
though, not to let Mr. Dorn know that you are taking part.” Vicki
agreed. “And let’s not mention it to my husband, either,” Mrs. Bryant
said with a gleam of mischief. “Here’s the address, my dear. Thank you
very, very much.”

“Don’t say that yet, Mrs. Bryant. First, let’s see what I can do.”

She thanked Mrs. Bryant for her hospitality, and said good-by. Mrs.
Bryant walked to the front door with Vicki, and stood looking after her
as she went down the marble steps. She looked so hopeful and yet afraid
to hope that Vicki thought:

“I’m going to do everything I can to help those two old people.”




CHAPTER IV

_A Puzzling Discovery_


“I don’t even want to hear anyone suggest that we go sightseeing around
San Francisco today,” said Jean Cox from the other twin bed, on Monday
morning. “I want to stay right here in our nice hotel room and sleep.”

“I wasn’t going to suggest sightseeing--not yet, anyway,” said Vicki,
at the mirror.

“Then why are you up and dressed so early? After those week-end runs we
put in, why aren’t you unconscious, too?”

On Saturday their crew had flown from New York to Chicago, stayed
overnight in Chicago, and on Sunday had flown on from Chicago to San
Francisco. Now they were to have a day in San Francisco to rest. Vicki
figured she would rest later and look for Lucy Rowe first. She told
Jean her plans.

“Well”--Jean yawned and stretched under the covers--“all I can say is
that a frail-looking, dreamy-looking little blonde like you has more
stamina than some of us husky people.”

Vicki grinned. “Is there anything I can do for you before I leave?”

“Just go away, my love, and let me sleep.”

They arranged to be in touch later in the day. Vicki softly let herself
out into the hotel corridor and went downstairs to the busy lobby. Part
of the fun of being a flight stewardess was living all over the United
States, and staying at the pleasant hotels where the airline put up
their crews. Along with her breakfast Vicki enjoyed a magnificent view
of San Francisco’s hills.

Ever since talking with Mrs. Bryant, Vicki had kept Lucy Rowe’s old
address safely in her purse. Now she took it out. At the hotel desk she
asked for directions to Sutro Heights. Vicki made her way there--riding
up and down steep hills--walking down a long wooden stairway from
one street level to another. She climbed past a cliff-top park with
white-painted statues, high above beach and ocean.

“San Franciscans certainly have their ups and downs,” Vicki thought,
puffing. “But what views!” On three sides she looked down over the
blue Pacific. The air was sea-fresh, cool, springlike. Vicki was so
enchanted that she almost forgot about the address in her purse.

It led her to a modest, leafy street and an unpretentious cottage.
There were a yard and an attempt at flower beds; children’s toys
littered the porch. When Vicki rang the doorbell, a pleasant young
woman in shirt and jeans came to the door. She looked not much older
than Vicki, or than Lucy’s age, twenty-one.

“I’m looking for Lucy Rowe,” said Vicki, and introduced herself. She
was careful not to mention the Bryants, not to intrude on the lawyer’s
province. She said she understood that the Rowes lived here, or used
to. “I wonder whether you could tell me what Lucy Rowe’s address is
now?”

“My goodness, I should be able to! Lucy and I went to high school
together; we’re old neighbors, too. After her mother died my family
bought their house. This house. Come in, Miss Barr. I’m Jill Joseph.
Come in, don’t mind the boys--”

The living room seemed to be overrun with very small boys and puppies.
Young Mrs. Joseph shooed the whole group outdoors, and she and Vicki
sat down to talk.

“I haven’t any address for Lucy at the moment,” Mrs. Joseph said,
“because she’s away. Lucy is a darling. Are you a friend of hers?”

“I’m a friend of a friend of hers,” Vicki said. “An elderly lady who
hasn’t heard from Lucy, or had any news of her, since Eleanor--Mrs.
Rowe died.”

“Why, that was five years ago!”

“Would you fill me in?” Vicki asked.

Jill Joseph nodded. “Five years ago Lucy and I still had another year
to go in high school. Then she lost her mother. This house was quite a
lot of work for Lucy and her father--you know how full the last year
of high school is, and Mr. Rowe worked hard at--” She named a large San
Francisco department store. “So Lucy and her father moved to a small
apartment near here, and we bought their house.”

“I see. What sort of work did Mr. Rowe do?”

“For a long time he worked at any job the department store gave him.
The Rowes never had an easy time of it financially.” The neighbor
hesitated. “It was hard on Lucy’s mother; she seemed to be used to more
than the Rowes could afford. A lot of us wondered about Eleanor Rowe.
Not that she ever complained--

“Anyway,” the young woman went on briskly, “Lucy’s father finally
worked himself up to be head of the store’s delivery service, I think
it was.”

“What was Jack Rowe like?” Vicki asked.

“Nice. The most devoted husband and father you ever saw. He would have
made a good doctor; he was so kind and patient and gentle.”

_So this was the son-in-law the Bryants had considered unworthy of
their daughter_, Vicki thought.

“Lucy’s mother was nice, too,” the neighbor said, “though she was
quiet and sort of sad, sometimes. She worried about what would become
of Lucy. Lucy used to try to laugh her out of it.... My goodness, I’m
chattering!”

“Won’t you tell me more about Lucy?” Vicki said. “I’m not even sure
what she looks like.”

“Well, she’s taller than you are, and slim--but she’s strong. Good
at all sports, and she knows a lot about naturelore.” _Mr. Dorn had
reported that_, Vicki recalled. “Brown hair, brown eyes, only sometimes
they look hazel,” Mrs. Joseph said. “She--she’s active and friendly.
Isn’t it hard to describe someone you know? The chief thing about Lucy
is that she’s a nice person, and it shows.”

“Does she miss her mother very much?” Vicki asked. “And her father?”

“Yes, terribly. Lucy’s such a loyal and warmhearted person. She always
befriends lost dogs, and hungry cats, and people who need her.”

It was out of lonesomeness and a need to be with people, the neighbor
said, that after her father died in an auto accident two years ago Lucy
moved into downtown San Francisco to live with another girl and the
girl’s mother. Also, Lucy wanted to be nearer her job. After graduation
from high school she had taken an intensive three-months’ business
course, and had been working as a secretary ever since--nearly four
years by now.

“Can you tell me the name and address of her employer? And of the girl
and her mother?” Vicki asked.

“Yes, I’ll write them down for you. But you won’t be able to see Mary
and Mrs. Scott. They’ve gone off on a trip. Lucy is away, too.”

_So Dorn had learned_, Vicki reminded herself. She asked:

“Do you know when she’ll be back?”

“She wasn’t sure herself, when she called me up to say good-by. Why
don’t you ask at the women’s hotel where she’s been living? Maybe she
left word. It’s the Hotel Alcott.”

“The women’s hotel?” Vicki felt confused. “I thought Lucy had been
living with Mary and Mrs. Scott?”

“Well, she did until recently. I’m not sure how recently. Lucy and
I aren’t in constant touch.” Jill Joseph explained that the Scotts’
household was a small one, and Lucy had felt she was crowding them.

Vicki could not remember whether Mr. Dorn had reported where Lucy
lived. She’d had the impression, and perhaps the Bryants did, too,
that Lucy lived with the girl and her mother with whom she was now
traveling. Well, Vicki thought, she’d clear up this point.

“If I telephone Lucy’s employer,” Vicki asked, “couldn’t they tell me
when she’ll be back?”

“I think she gave up her job at the Interstate Insurance Company,
though you can ask them.”

“Gave up her job?” _Dorn had not reported this._ “Why?”

“Something about a new job. The kids were having a squabble, and I
couldn’t get it straight over the telephone.”

“You mean Lucy starts on a new job when she comes back from her trip
with the Scotts?”

“Lucy isn’t traveling with Mary and Mrs. Scott. And I _think_
traveling is part of her new job.”

This news did not tally with Mr. Dorn’s report, or more accurately, it
went beyond the lawyer’s report. Well, it was possible Lucy had been
away during the period that Dorn was looking for her, and then had
returned to give up her job and take a new one. Then, too, Jill Joseph
admitted she didn’t have all the facts straight.

“I’ll inquire at the Hotel Alcott,” Vicki said, “and at the Interstate
Insurance Company.”

“Try telephoning the Scotts, too. Perhaps they are back now and have
heard from Lucy.”

Vicki and Jill Joseph chatted a while longer. Vicki gathered that
Lucy’s life was rather bleak. Even though she had friends and one or
two not important beaux, she missed her family and home, and felt
alone. Evenings after work she often kept herself busy taking college
courses, and attending church choir practice.

“I guess the Reverend Mr. Hall has done more than anyone to help Lucy
feel less alone,” Mrs. Joseph said. “He’s a wonderful man. He knew her
parents, and he’s known Lucy all her life. He used to be in charge of
a church here in Sutro Heights, but he’s been transferred to Russian
Hill. I’ll give you his address, too.”

A few minutes later Vicki thanked Jill Joseph and said good-by to her.
“You’ve been a great help. More than you know.”

“Anything I can do for Lucy--well, she needs all the help and love her
friends can give her.”

How wonderful it was going to be for Lucy, Vicki thought as she
traveled back to the center of town, to discover that her grandparents
cared for her. What a happy change in her life there would be.

On the way Vicki stopped at a drugstore and called the Scotts from
a telephone booth. Their telephone rang repeatedly without answer.
Vicki then called the Interstate Insurance Company and talked to the
personnel manager.

“Miss Lucy Rowe?” he repeated. “Just a moment while I look up her
card.” A pause. “Miss Rowe resigned from our employ on January
twenty-second.”

Vicki scribbled down this date, and noted that it was now Monday,
February sixteenth. A little less than a month ago ... just about
the time Mr. Dorn said she had left San Francisco. Well, then, Dorn
_was_ right. Vicki asked whether the personnel manager could tell her
anything further about Lucy.

“Well, I can tell you that she’s an excellent secretary, was with us
for over three years, and we were sorry to lose her.”

“That’s a fine record, isn’t it? Thank you very much, sir.”

Vicki hung up. She telephoned the Scotts twice again on her way back
to downtown San Francisco. No answer. On a third call a man’s voice
answered.

“Mary Scott? She and her mother went away on a long trip. This is the
superintendent. I’m in their place fixin’ a leaky pipe.... No, ma’am, I
don’t know when they’ll be home.”

“Thank you,” Vicki said. Next she tried the Reverend Mr. Hall’s number.
Here she kept getting busy signals. She decided to stop for lunch, then
visit Lucy’s place of residence.

Arriving at the Hotel Alcott in the early afternoon, she found it to be
a pleasant, friendly, plain sort of place. A few people, mostly women,
were in the lobby. She spoke to the desk clerk.

“I wonder if you can help me? I’m looking for Miss Lucy Rowe.”

“Oh, yes, Lucy!” The middle-aged woman behind the desk smiled, but
shook her head. “You won’t find Lucy here, young lady. She checked out.”

“Can you please tell me when? And where she is now?”

The woman hesitated. Vicki produced her airline identification card to
introduce herself and explained that she had a message to deliver to
Lucy. The woman seemed satisfied. She opened a ledger.

“Lucy checked out on--let me see--Saturday, February seventh.”

That would be--today was Monday, February sixteenth--only nine days
ago. _Yet Mr. Dorn reported that Lucy had left San Francisco a month
ago._ Vicki could not account for the discrepancy. She asked the desk
clerk:

“I wonder whether Lucy has been out of town--taken any short trips--in
the last month or two?”

“Yes, recently some of the girls here persuaded her to go off for week
ends with them, to ski, or to hike in the mountains.”

“Can you tell me,” Vicki asked the desk clerk, “whether Lucy was away
about a month ago?”

“I’m sorry, but I don’t remember the dates.”

“Well, will you please tell me one more thing?” Vicki was trying to
figure dates, starting with the fact of Dorn’s visit about a month ago.
“Did Lucy live at the Hotel Alcott a month ago?”

The woman consulted the ledger again. “Yes. Lucy was with us just
barely a month.”

It was possible, Vicki thought, that Lucy might not yet have moved to
the Hotel Alcott at the time of Dorn’s visit.

“If you’re trying to locate Lucy, Miss Barr,” said the clerk, “I think
the best way to do it would be through Mrs. Heath.”

“Who is Mrs. Heath?”

“A very nice older woman who is now Lucy’s employer. Mrs. Elizabeth
Heath. A writer. Gray hair, well-dressed, and distinguished-looking.
She stayed with us at the hotel for a while. She was looking for a
secretary-companion, and Lucy turned out to be just the right girl
for the job.” The hotel clerk said this with a certain pride and
satisfaction. “It’s a happy arrangement for both of them, I think.”

Vicki was surprised, but she felt better. Here was definite and
reassuring news of Lucy. She asked the woman for Mrs. Heath and Lucy’s
address.

“They haven’t sent us their address yet,” the woman said. “Probably
they’re just traveling around. Mrs. Heath had a car, and as I
understood it, her plan was to travel around California and stay at
inns here and there, and write her memoirs in a leisurely sort of way.
Mrs. Heath _may_ rent a house. It sounds like a lovely job for Lucy. A
lot of the girls here at the Alcott would like to have such a job.”

“It does sound like a pleasant job,” Vicki agreed, “but how can I find
Lucy, Miss--?” The clerk said her name was Mrs. Stacey. “Hasn’t anyone
here heard from Lucy since she left? Not even a post card?”

“She’s been gone only a little over a week,” the hotel clerk pointed
out. “She’ll write to her friends here, I’m sure. She may already be in
touch with the minister, Mr. Hall; he’s a great friend of hers.”

Vicki said she had his address and telephone number and would call him
right away. She thanked Mrs. Stacey for all her kindness.

When Vicki again telephoned the Reverend Mr. Hall, she was able to
reach him. He was rather chary of giving any information on the
telephone. Vicki explained who she was, and told him a little of why
she was looking for Lucy Rowe.

“Ah, I see. As a matter of fact, Miss Barr, I myself would like to
know where Lucy is at the moment.”

The minister’s voice was friendly and direct. Vicki thought she heard
an undertone of worry.

“Mr. Hall, I’m here at the Hotel Alcott, and they’ve told me Lucy has a
fine job with a Mrs. Heath.”

“Yes, I know. Everybody is enthusiastic about Lucy’s new job except
myself. I advised her to consider, and make haste slowly, but she--”
Vicki heard voices in the background. “However, I cant go into this on
the telephone.”

“May I come to see you, Mr. Hall?” Vicki asked. “It’s important for me
to locate Lucy.”

“Yes, indeed, though today is all filled up.” He suggested that Vicki
telephone him again in a day or two. Vicki promised she would, thanked
him, and hung up.

Vicki went back to her hotel. She wanted to pack and to rest so that
she would be fit for work: she was scheduled for an eight A.M. Electra
flight the next morning.

Jean Cox was rested after extra sleep. “What did you find out about
Lucy Rowe?” she asked.

“Don’t ask me yet. I haven’t any answers--only some new questions.”




CHAPTER V

_The Girl in the Portrait_


From San Francisco to Chicago on Tuesday, and back on Wednesday, left
Vicki free by Thursday morning. She at once telephoned the minister. He
said she might come over immediately.

Vicki found her way to Russian Hill, an area of steep, far-flung
streets crisscrossed with leafy lanes. The church she was seeking was a
handsome modern stone building. The minister’s residence next door, in
contrast, was one of the old wooden houses with lacelike balconies and
ornate cupolas that had survived the San Francisco earthquake and fire.
A housekeeper admitted her and led her into Mr. Hall’s study.

Vicki’s first impression of the minister was of a pair of
extraordinarily perceptive eyes. He received Vicki simply, without any
ceremony, and made her feel at ease. She presented her credentials,
wishing she could tell the minister about Lucy’s grandparents, and
their wonderful plans for her.

“I’m glad you have come to me, Miss Barr,” he said. “Are you a little
worried, too, about Lucy?”

“I don’t know what to think, Mr. Hall. I had been advised by
Lucy’s--ah--friends in New York that she was probably on vacation
traveling with friends. Now I find that isn’t exactly how it is, unless
there’s been some misunderstanding.”

The minister said that was possible. “Let me speak frankly to you,
Miss Barr. I wasn’t keen about Lucy’s taking this job, at least not so
quickly. I asked her to get a little better acquainted with Mrs. Heath
first, before she went off traveling with her. It’s true Mrs. Heath
showed Lucy unimpeachable references, and she seems to be a substantial
person.”

“Did you meet Mrs. Heath?” Vicki asked.

“I very much wanted to,” the minister said, “but unfortunately the lady
was too ill with a virus to see me. We did have a pleasant telephone
conversation. I was left with the impression that she is above
reproach. Still, I’m not satisfied.” He looked out the window where a
lemon tree stood. “You see--”

The minister said that Lucy had met Mrs. Heath at the women’s hotel,
and liked her from the start. In some ways Mrs. Heath reminded Lucy of
her mother, whom she missed. Within a short time, only about a week,
they were good friends and Mrs. Heath asked Lucy whether she’d like to
be her secretary and traveling companion. Lucy came to Mr. Hall to talk
it over with him. Mrs. Heath’s offer was attractive, a long-term job,
interesting work, a good salary plus all her living costs paid for by
Mrs. Heath, and a chance to travel. Lucy felt confined, living in the
city and working at a routine job, so Mrs. Heath’s plan appealed to her.

“I pointed out to Lucy that she needn’t be in such a hurry to give up
her job and accept this new one,” said the minister. “But she told me
Mrs. Heath was eager to start work on her book. At any rate, as Lucy
pointed out to me, they did not rush off at once.”

Lucy gave up her job at the insurance company and for the next two
weeks helped Mrs. Heath prepare for their trip, and did some library
research for her. “I must admit Lucy seemed interested and happy,” said
the minister. In those two weeks Mrs. Heath allowed Lucy plenty of time
to wind up her own affairs in San Francisco. Then, using Mrs. Heath’s
car, or, rather, a car which Mrs. Heath rented for several months, they
started out.

“When did they start?” Vicki asked.

“It was a Saturday, I believe the first Saturday in February.”

Vicki scribbled down this date, with a note. “And did they say where
they were going?”

“Oh, yes, certainly,” the minister answered. “I don’t wish to give you
the wrong impression about Mrs. Heath,” the minister said to Vicki. “I
only wish Lucy had gone more slowly and made sure that she and Mrs.
Heath really would be compatible over a period of several months’ close
association--and checked a little on Mrs. Heath’s financial ability to
pay all the bills and Lucy’s salary.”

[Illustration: _“Are you worried, too, about Lucy?” Dr. Hall asked_]

Their plan, the minister told Vicki, was to head slightly north and
east of Sacramento, into the Mother Lode country. Mrs. Heath had made
an earlier trip through the hill region and had said that she might
possibly rent a house in the area.

“I received a post card from Lucy,” said Mr. Hall. “Just a moment.”

The minister picked up a picture post card from his desk and handed it
to Vicki. It was postmarked Placerville, California, February seventh,
at four P.M. Vicki glanced at the desk calendar. February seventh was
the first Saturday in February.

“Wasn’t this post card mailed the same day that Lucy and Mrs. Heath
started out?” Vicki asked.

“Yes. Evidently Lucy mailed the post card en route. She says nothing,
actually--‘Beautiful country, beautiful weather. Will write soon.’ But
she hasn’t written since, Miss Barr. Not to me or, so far as I can
learn, to any of her friends. And I don’t know where she is.”

Vicki felt a sharp misgiving. “Have you--have you planned to take any
steps to get in touch with her, Mr. Hall?”

He hesitated. “It’s not quite two weeks since Lucy left. I believe they
planned to work on Mrs. Heath’s book, so that possibly Lucy hasn’t had
a chance to write to me. I don’t mean to alarm you, Miss Barr.”

“But I think _you_ are a little alarmed, Mr. Hall?”

He thought for a moment. “Now that you pose the question, yes, I am
uneasy about Lucy.”

“Did a Mr. Dorn ever call you?”

“Dorn? No.”

That troubled Vicki. She also wondered what really lay behind Lucy’s
change of jobs. She remarked as much to Mr. Hall.

“Yes, I feel there is more to know about Lucy’s job situation than we
do know,” he said. He reflected. “Maybe Gravy could tell you something
more.”

Vicki smiled. “I beg your pardon, but did you say someone’s name is
Gravy?”

The minister smiled back at her. “Graves. Knowlton Graves. He and his
wife are young people, friends of Lucy’s. She’s the one who dubbed him
Gravy. He’s a painter, and he’s been doing Lucy’s portrait. I think
that because of work on the portrait the Graveses had been seeing Lucy
oftener than anyone else had, just before she left.”

“Do you think Mr. and Mrs. Graves would be willing to talk to me about
Lucy?” Vicki asked.

“We’ll see.” Mr. Hall picked up the telephone and dialed a number. He
talked to Knowlton Graves, paving the way for Vicki. “Yes, I think Miss
Barr can come over right away.” Vicki nodded. “What?... Yes, I’ll tell
her. Thanks very much,” and the minister hung up. He turned to Vicki.

“Gravy wants me to tell you, with due apologies, that he has a heavy
work schedule. If you’re willing to go over to Telegraph Hill for just
a short visit, he’d be very glad to see you.”

Vicki got to her feet. “Even a few minutes’ talk could be revealing.”

Mr. Hall wrote down the Graveses’ address, and gave Vicki directions
for getting there. She thanked the minister warmly for all his help and
kindness. He said, just as warmly:

“I feel you and I are in league for Lucy’s best interests.” He smiled,
and his eyes seemed to look through and through her. “Perhaps you have
more news of Lucy than you were willing to confide in me on a first
visit. Come back and see me again, whether or not you learn any news.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Gravy was a large, noisy young man. He boomed at her that his wife
Maggie was out shopping, he’d made a mess of the studio, and if she was
a friend of Lucy’s how come he’d never met her before?

Vicki followed him into a workmanlike studio, explaining that she was
only the friend of a friend of their mutual friend.

“How’s that again?” Gravy boomed at her. He looked at her sternly.
“Interesting planes in your face. Ever sit for a portrait?”

Vicki perched on a paint-splattered wooden chair and said firmly, “No,
and I’m afraid I’m too busy to. Can we talk about Lucy?”

“Okay. Gosh, you look serious. There isn’t anything wrong, is there?
About Lucy, I mean.”

“I don’t _know_ that anything’s wrong,” Vicki said carefully. “It’s
just that I’ve heard confused reports about her, and she’s gone off
traveling with a woman she hardly knows. That wasn’t wise.”

“My wife feels the same way you do--though I say that Heath woman
sounds all right. Don’t worry.” Gravy moved a pile of unframed canvases
out of the way, and sat down facing Vicki. “Lucy likes that Mrs. Heath.
She was motherly to Lucy, I guess that’s why.”

Vicki asked whether the Graveses had heard from Lucy. They had not, and
Gravy was untroubled about it. He said blithely:

“All I want is for Lucy to drop by here one of these days, so I can
finish her portrait. Want to see it?”

He rummaged through the pile of canvases, pulled out one, and set it on
an easel so Vicki could see it. She took a long, curious look. Allowing
for the painter’s rather abstract style, she could see from Gravy’s
portrait what Lucy Rowe looked like--a girl with big eyes, light-brown
hair, a rather square face which in a feminine version recalled
Marshall Bryant’s. Vicki could also see a little of Lucy’s pleasant
personality from the easy way she had tossed a bulky green wool scarf
around her shoulders, and her friendly half-smile.

“Lucy looks as if she’s about to speak,” Vicki said.

“Well, we did talk a lot while we were doing this portrait,” Gravy
said. “She was all excited about the job offer from Mrs. Heath.”

“Did she ever talk about anyone else?” Vicki asked. “About her parents,
or--or her grandparents?”

“It’s funny that you should ask that. Sure, she always talked about her
parents. But during the sittings a lot of stuff about her grandparents
came out. Funny she never would mention their name, it was such a
touchy subject with her.” Gravy looked searchingly at Vicki. “I guess
it’s all right to repeat it, it’s not exactly a secret. A confidence,
maybe. Well--

“Lucy told Maggie and me she’d always felt no one but her parents
ever really wanted her or cared about her. She just couldn’t believe
her friends care a whole lot about her, or that some day she’ll
find a husband who cares for her and needs her. You know what that
feeling comes out of? From the way her grandparents rejected her and
her parents, all of Lucy’s life. Made them feel humiliated, left
out. Wouldn’t answer their letters. Never even cared to meet their
granddaughter. The three Rowes didn’t have any close relatives. They
sort of huddled together by themselves; then Lucy lost her mother, and
then her father. So now Lucy feels alone, and unwanted.

“Well! Along came this Mrs. Heath, and she was motherly to Lucy.
Besides, _she_ needed Lucy, _she_ wanted Lucy to be with her--to help
her with the book and to be her traveling companion. She even decided
to go to the hills to please Lucy. Pretty nice of her, hey? You should
have seen how much happier that girl was, all of a sudden! My wife says
that’s why Lucy took the new job almost without hesitating. I tell you,
Lucy’s heart is in that job.”

Vicki felt puzzled as she listened to all this. How could a lawyer like
Mr. Dorn, a man trained to make investigations, not have unearthed
the fact of Lucy’s job with Mrs. Heath? Except that Mrs. Stacey had
said Lucy had been in and out of San Francisco several times with her
friends, just around the time Mr. Dorn was here....

“Mr. Graves, did a man named Dorn get in touch with you?”

“Dorn? Never heard of him.”

“Did Lucy mention a Mr. Dorn to you?”

Gravy shook his head. Well, Vicki thought, Dorn and Lucy must have
just missed each other, and some of her friends must have given him a
garbled or incomplete account of her trip and plans and the respectable
older lady with whom she was traveling.

“You said Mrs. Heath and Lucy were going to the hills. Can you tell me
where in the hills?” Vicki asked.

“About a three hours’ drive from San Francisco, in the foothills of
the Sierra Nevada Mountains,” Gravy said. “It’s east of the Great
Valley, in the Mother Lode country with all those little pear-growing
towns like Placerville and Auburn and Grass Valley. It’s west of the
mountains on the way to Donner Pass. Just about where the hills really
start to roll and climb and start turning into mountains. That’s where
Lucy spent some happy vacations with her parents when she was a child.”

As Gravy talked, Vicki visualized a map of California in her mind and
tried to fix the locale. “Isn’t the Mother Lode country where they
first discovered gold in 1848?” Vicki asked.

“Right. That was gold-rush country. They’re still mining a little gold
in them thar hills,” Gravy said with a grin.

Vicki asked him what that stretch of hills was like.

“It’s high, about fifteen-hundred to two-thousand-feet elevation,
and Lucy talked about the pine trees. There are a few little towns
scattered trough there, and a lot of small two-to five-acre pear farms
and almond farms. Lucy said it was really pretty, kind of quiet and
peaceful, not too many people around.”

“Isolated?” Vicki suggested.

“Well”--Gravy thoughtfully rubbed his chin--“I suppose if this Mrs.
Heath wanted to find a real private location to hole up and write her
book, she wouldn’t have too many neighbors to bother her in the Sierra
foothills. Especially if she didn’t stay at inns, if she rented a
house--”

So Lucy and Mrs. Heath were somewhere in the Sierra foothills, around
the pear-growing towns! Gravy had said that was about three hours’
driving time from San Francisco. By private plane, Vicki figured, it
would take much less time. If she visited and inquired at the main
villages in the area, she probably would learn something about the two
women. Strangers in a rural area would surely be noticed.

“That’s what I could do,” Vicki thought. “It’s not much of a trip, and
it shouldn’t be too difficult to look around a bit. I did promise Mrs.
Bryant I’d do my best.”

She noticed Gravy glance, with embarrassment, toward the large clock on
the wall.

“Oh, _I’m_ sorry, Mr. Graves,” said Vicki. “Mr. Hall told me I mustn’t
detain you too long.”

“Gosh, I’m sorry. Guess I told you everything I could about Lucy. Maybe
Maggie could’ve remembered something more--”

Vicki said she hoped to meet his wife another time, thanked the
painter, and went to the door.

“If you see Lucy,” said Gravy, letting her out, “tell her one more
sitting will finish up the portrait. So long, now.”

_If_ she saw Lucy! She wanted to try.

Vicki found a drugstore, ordered a coke, and took her bid sheet out of
her purse. The bid sheet showed her scheduled flying days and her days
off.

She had three rest days--today, tomorrow, and Saturday. Her next
assigned flight, with Jean Cox, was not until nine A.M. on Sunday. That
was fine.

This afternoon she could arrange to rent a private plane and study
maps. Tomorrow, and if necessary Saturday, she could search for Lucy.
That should be enough time.

Vicki had one misgiving. Suppose Lucy and Mrs. Heath were no longer in
the Placerville region, where Lucy had mailed the post card? Suppose
Mrs. Heath had decided to move on, or--a fleeting suspicion occurred to
Vicki--suppose Mrs. Heath had never intended to settle in that region?
The whole story of the sudden job offer disturbed Vicki as much as it
had the minister.

“There’s only one way to find out,” Vicki decided, “and that’s to go
look for Lucy Rowe.”




CHAPTER VI

_Vicki Searches_


The next morning Vicki went to Novato airport, in Marin County, forty
minutes from San Francisco. Having been out there late yesterday
afternoon, she was briefed for her flight. Placerville, her first stop,
was about a hundred and twenty-five miles away. Joe and Ed Foster,
the men from whom she was renting a Cessna 150, had marked on her air
map the routes, landmarks, and sites of small airports in and near
Placerville and surrounding villages.

The trim little Cessna 150 was a single-engine, two-place airplane,
with landing lights, wing lights for navigation, and a two-way radio.
Vicki carefully went over the plane, making a line check. It was in A-1
condition and fully fueled. She climbed in, with a lift up from Joe
Foster.

“All okay?” he asked. Vicki smiled and nodded. “Now remember, this
plane has a fast rate of climb. Watch it.”

“I’ll remember.” Yesterday afternoon she had taxied the Cessna around
a little, to see how the plane handled, and had fallen in love with the
instantly responsive aircraft. Vicki said:

“I’ll bring her back late this afternoon, Mr. Foster.” She would rather
not do night flying in an unfamiliar airplane over country which was
new to her.

Foster waved. “Happy landings.”

“Thanks. See you.”

Vicki closed the door, put her feet on the pedals, cracked the throttle
forward slightly, released the brakes, and pressed the starter button.
The plane went skimming along the airstrip. As the Cessna left the
ground, Vicki felt she was simply floating up into the air. While
she was figuring how rapidly to reach the altitude and air speed she
wanted, the Cessna reached these and almost flew off by itself.

“Whoa, there!” Vicki exclaimed aloud. This was exhilarating! She put
the nose down a little, leveled off, and turned northeast.

Once across the comparatively low Coast Range mountains, Vicki looked
down on the Sacramento River flowing through rich farms and cattle
prairie. Vicki bypassed the city of Sacramento, capital of California,
and went sailing along over the Great Valley. Her cockpit was full
of sunshine, and the plane flew quietly, smoothly. She was making
sixty miles an hour. The plane could do eighty or more, but Vicki had
landmarks to watch for.

Another hour passed. Vicki saw the towns below grow smaller and
farther apart, and the land begin to roll slightly. Blue outlines of
hills appeared on the horizon. Vicki climbed to a higher altitude.
The temperature grew much cooler. Vicki buttoned her jacket. A few
minutes later she saw much higher outlines on the horizon--the immense,
distant peaks of the Sierra Nevadas loomed up like a great wall. Vicki
consulted her air chart, and looked down to locate Placerville. It was
the first of the villages, nestled low on this side of the distant
mountains.

Vicki found the local airstrip and made a neat landing. A mechanic at
work in the hangar told her it was ten minutes’ walk into town.

“Or you can hitch a ride, miss.”

“Thanks, I’ll walk.” She was wary of driving with strangers; and
besides, the countryside of nut and fruit ranches offered a beautiful
walk.

In the village Vicki inquired first at the small hotel. The owner put
down his newspaper and obligingly looked through the register. It had
just a few guests listed; Lucy and Mrs. Heath were not among them.

“Did you see _any_ older woman with a young, brown-haired woman?” Vicki
asked the hotel owner.

“No, miss. Why don’t you ask at the Pines Motel? You can ’phone from
here.”

Vicki telephoned. The motel had no record, no recall of the two women.
She went to the Placerville restaurants, garage, police office, and
asked. No news.

Vicki flew on to the next town, Auburn. She talked with friendly
tradesmen and local people at a roadside stand heaped with cherries,
almonds, grapes, walnuts, and apples. No one, not even the motel
keeper or the gas-station owner, had seen the woman and the girl Vicki
described. Neither had Auburn’s police officers.

In the next town, Marysville, Vicki inquired again, with no results.
In each village--a few of them were almost ghost towns of gold-rush
fame--she got the same story. No one had seen the two women. By
midafternoon Vicki felt badly discouraged.

“Well, shall I give up?”

Vicki thought it over. So far she had tried only the villages. The
minister and the painter had mentioned the possibility that Mrs. Heath
might rent a house in the Sierra foothills. “A house off by itself in
the hills--that’s the next thing to look for and ask about.”

Vicki took the Cessna up again, thinking hard about the best way to
locate such a house. She had been aloft fifteen minutes when she
decided it would be a wise precaution to replenish her gas supply. The
air chart showed a small airport off to the northeast. Vicki hoped she
could buy gas there. She turned, reduced speed, and watched for an
airport.

Just off the highway, she spotted a meadow with airstrips mowed in the
grass. Three or four planes and cars were parked outside a barn, which
must be the hangar.

She circled low over the meadow twice, to let the people below know
she wanted to land. Two men in coveralls came out of the hangar. They
motioned to her how to come down, pointing to the windsock atop the
barn. Vicki waggled the plane wings in reply, flew into their air
pattern, and coasted in for a landing. By this time, three other men
wearing coveralls had come out to watch her. They gave Vicki friendly
smiles as she stepped out of the plane.

“Hello, anything we can do for you?” one asked her. They were all
young men, deeply tanned, with sun squint lines around their eyes, and
immediately interested in Vicki’s Cessna 150.

“Thanks, I’d like to buy some gas here,” Vicki said. “And maybe you’ll
advise me how to find a place I’m looking for.”

“Glad to do both,” said one young man. “I’m Wes Clark.”

He introduced the four others--the two McKee brothers, a redhead called
Red Jones, and the tall man who had spoken first, Jack Whiting. Vicki
told them her name, and said her home was in Fairview, Illinois.

They all said hello, and invited Vicki to see their airplane. She was
interested in their heavy plane and special equipment, and asked what
they were doing.

“We’re prospecting from the sky,” Wes Foster said. “We search for ore
buried in the ground. Mostly for mineral pockets. Want to see how we
aerial miners work?”

“I certainly want to know what that long torpedolike thing tied to the
back of your plane is,” Vicki admitted.

The McKee brothers said, “That’s ours.” They were electronic experts,
and at work they sat inside the big instrument to watch for the
telltale jump of dial needles, as the “snooper” plane flew over
mountains, lakes, and valleys. The young men explained to Vicki that a
strong radioactive source--such as uranium--showed on the detectors.

“Do you need maps?” Vicki asked. She was thinking of her own search for
a secluded house in the hills.

“Sure, we use maps. Whiting here is our aerial photographer. He makes
an aerial survey with a movie camera that’s co-ordinated with the
electronic needles. Then he pieces the photographs together into one
big map, and that gives us and our geologist an over-all picture of the
region we’re exploring.”

Red Jones, stammering slightly, told Vicki he was the geologist of the
team. She asked if she might see the map he used.

“We were just looking at it in the hangar. Come on in, Miss Barr.”

They all went into the hangar where equipment and a large photographic
map were spread out on a table. Jack Whiting and Wes Clark started to
explain the map to Vicki. They said it showed the contours of the dips
and peaks of the rugged terrain around there. The photo-map resembled a
complicated diagram; it was not easy for Vicki to read.

“Well, are you looking for anything in particular?” Whiting, the aerial
photographer, asked her.

“Yes. An isolated house,” said Vicki.

“Hmm. That’s a tall order. There are several houses and buildings off
by themselves, way up in the hills.”

Wes Clark suggested that they start by locating such houses on the
photo-map. They located several small marks on the map which were
houses. However, Whiting remembered that two of the buildings were
power stations, one a sportsman’s hunting lodge, one a house they knew
to be boarded up.

“What’s this?” Vicki put her finger on a blurred spot on the photo-map.
It was the size of a pinhead.

“That’s half a dozen houses and a general store, too small even to be a
village,” the younger McKee brother said. “No post office or anything.
The ranchers around there call the place Pine Top.”

“No, I don’t mean the cluster of houses,” Vicki insisted, “I mean this
tiny dark spot. Could it be a hidden house?”

The young man peered at the blur. “Could be,” the aerial photographer
finally said. “Lots of forest and high, winding roads at that point. If
it’s a house, it’s hidden, all right. The camera doesn’t tell _what_
that blur is, I’m afraid.”

Vicki looked searchingly at the map. She could not see any other mark
which suggested a private house. Only the one above Pine Top.

“I think,” she said slowly, “I’ll gamble on it and fly to Pine Top.”

“Maintain enough altitude,” Wes Clark advised her. “You can get gas
from someone at Pine Top, if necessary.”

“Gas!” Vicki remembered. “I need some right now, if you can spare it.”

The airfield had a commercial, self-service gas pump. Wes Clark said
with a grin, “Our advice is free, but you have to pay for the gas.”

“I’m glad to have both,” said Vicki.

The young men helped her to refuel her plane, and watched her climb in.
Wes Clark looked at his wrist watch and said:

“It’s pretty late in the afternoon to head for Pine Top. I wouldn’t try
it for the first time at dusk, if I were you.”

They were right. To explore half-mountainous terrain, by air, in fading
light would be foolhardy. Besides, she was growing tired, and there was
still the return flight to San Francisco to make.

“All right, I’ll try for Pine Top tomorrow,” she said. She smiled and
waved at the five young men.

“Thanks a lot for everything. I hope to see you all again sometime.”

“See you,” they repeated. “Get home safely. Happy landings.”

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Vicki dreamed of Pine Top and of a dark, fantastic house
clinging to a wooded mountainside. Those troubled pictures were the
reflection of her worry about Lucy.

Actually, when she was wide awake on Saturday noon, and looking down
from the Cessna 150 in the bright sky, Pine Top turned out to be a
cheerful place. There wasn’t much of Pine Top, just a few houses
clustered together in the refreshing green of forests and hilly grazing
lands.

She looked down and circled, losing altitude, searching for an area to
land. The one level place she could see was a back road--a wide, empty,
dirt road. Vicki came down bumpily, then staked down the plane at the
side of the road, and hiked toward the houses.

No one was in sight, only a yellow hound-dog. The general store
seemed the likeliest place to make inquiries. Going in, Vicki found
it deserted. She looked around at the shelves, counters, boxes, and
barrels piled with provisions for living deep in the country. She
noticed a bell on the counter, rang it, then waited.

Presently a man and woman came in, carrying baskets of garden produce.
They said good morning to Vicki, and looked at her curiously.

“Was that you flying around here a while ago?” the man asked. Vicki
smiled and nodded.

“Well! What’re you doing in these parts, young lady?”

“We don’t often see strangers,” the woman put in. She said their names
were Carl and Angie Potter. “My, that’s a handsome jacket you’re
wearing.”

“Thank you,” said Vicki. “I wonder if you’d give me some advice?” The
couple were eager to help. “I wonder if you’ve seen an elderly lady and
a brown-haired girl about my age with her?”

“Why, sure enough, we have,” the man said. Vicki’s hopes leaped up.
“They came here in a car about two weeks ago.”

“The lady’s name is Mrs. Elizabeth Heath,” the woman said importantly.
“I saw her name on an identification tag tied on her suitcase--I
noticed it when I carried some of the groceries out to her car. I can’t
figure out whether the girl is her daughter or niece or exactly what.
They bought a whole carload of groceries from us, same day they got
here, and went on up to the old Glidden place.”

“The house up in the hills?” Vicki asked.

“Uh-huh. Nobody’s seen hide nor hair of them since,” said the man.
“Bill Jenkins from the telephone company strung up a wire to their
house, so we know Mrs. Heath has the phone working again. But except
for phoning me to bring more groceries, she hasn’t called up nobody
here.”

The woman sniffed. “That Mrs. Heath was uppity when she bought her
groceries from us. The girl seemed real nice, though.”

“It’s the girl I want to see.” Vicki felt a great sense of relief at
actually having located Mrs. Heath and Lucy. “How far is the Glidden
place from here?” she asked.

“Oh, about twenty minutes up an awfully curvy, narrow piece of road. We
could drive you up there.”

They all piled into the couple’s jalopy. The narrow road up to the
house climbed and wound. “On a wet day,” said Mr. Potter, “anyone who
drives on this road’ll break his neck.”

At the top of the road the land leveled off, and they reached a high
stone wall. Behind it, Vicki could see only treetops and the second
floor of a house. The Potters said the wall completely enclosed the
Glidden place.

Mr. Potter stopped the car before a large wooden door in the wall.
“We’ll have to honk,” he said. When there was no answer, he tried the
door. “Locked,” he said.

Angie Potter raised her voice. “Oh, Mrs. Heath! Mrs. Hea-ea-eath!”
Still no answer. “Maybe nobody’s home.”

Vicki said, “The upstairs windows are open, and the curtains are open,
too. Someone’s probably at home.”

Mr. Potter honked, Mrs. Potter called, Vicki knocked on the wooden door
in the wall. They made so much noise that a flock of birds swooped out
of a nearby tree, and flew away.

“Not very neighborly,” Mrs. Potter grumbled.

Vicki felt discomfited. Granted that Mrs. Heath wanted an isolated
place in which to write her book; still, did the two women have to
isolate themselves so rigidly?

“Well, we might as well go,” said Mrs. Potter.

They made a cautious descent down the narrow, steep road. The Potters
drove Vicki back to the spot where she had parked the plane. They would
not hear of accepting the payment she offered, and said good-by.

She waited until the Potters drove safely off the back road. Then she
got into the Cessna, taxied as far as the road permitted, and took off.
In the air she figured out a route which would take her clear of the
jutting hillside, yet bring her over the house.

Within sight of the wall and the house, the fast plane rolled a little
when Vicki overcontrolled it to fly more slowly. First she followed the
wall, to get her bearings in relation to the house and road, and to
look for a possible place to land.

She was surprised to see that the property covered quite a bit of
acreage. The far end of it was hilly woods, but this led into a long,
fairly level stretch of meadow which would afford a landing area. The
meadow led up to the house.

Before she knew it, Vicki had flown over the house, which was not very
large. She had to circle around and fly back for a better look. The
house was rather rustic and long and low. It was not far from the road
behind the wall. A garden surrounded it in front and on both sides.

But the most interesting thing she saw below was two women working
in the garden on the sunny south side of the house. One woman was
gray-haired. The other figure was a girl’s, with brown hair; she had
thrown around her shoulders a bulky green woolen scarf like the scarf
in the portrait.

“Lucy!” Vicki thought in excitement. “There’s Lucy Rowe! I’ve found
her.”

In the instant that Vicki flew over them, they looked up at the
plane which had now flown past twice. Vicki thought, “Won’t they be
astonished when I land inside their wall!”

She headed over the meadow, thinking about wind direction and landing
speeds. Then she remembered to glance at her wrist watch--and was
alarmed at the time. There simply wasn’t time today to land and talk to
Lucy and Mrs. Heath. Her free time had nearly run out.

Vicki was obliged to fly past the meadow, beyond the wooded hillside,
and out over Pine Top country in the direction of the coast and San
Francisco. She was exceedingly disappointed.

“Well, I’ll have ample time off next week,” Vicki consoled herself.
“I’ll come back.”




CHAPTER VII

_Which Lucy?_


“Vicki, there’s a Miss L. Rowe aboard!” Jean said excitedly. “I just
discovered it when I had to check tickets and passengers’ names!”

Vicki stopped her preparations for lunch and stepped outside the buffet
into the aisle. “Where, Jean? Where is she?”

“’Way up forward. You can’t see her from here. A stunning girl. Brown
suit, brown hair.”

“I can’t stop and go up there now.” Vicki craned to see down the length
of the Electra cabin. “Has she a squarish face?”

“I’m not sure.” Some of the passengers noticed their excitement. The
two stewardesses stepped back into the privacy of the buffet. “Vic,
could she be _your_ Lucy Rowe?”

“Hmm. It’s possible--”

Today was Tuesday. She had seen Lucy Rowe from the air on Saturday,
in California. Since then Vicki had flown to Chicago, had a rest day
in Chicago on Monday, and now was flying from Chicago to New York.
The Electra had taken off from Chicago half an hour ago, at noon. With
Jean she had greeted the boarding passengers but hadn’t seen anyone she
could have imagined to be Lucy Rowe. Still, with sixty-eight passengers
enplaning, she might not have noticed every face.

“Yes, it’s possible she’s my Lucy Rowe,” said Vicki. “I’m surprised, of
course. Lucy must have left Pine Top rather suddenly--or at any rate,
awfully soon after I was there. It seems like a strange coincidence.”

“One point,” Jean said. “Her ticket reads ‘Miss L. Rowe.’ It _doesn’t_
read Lucy. Her first name might be Lillian, for all we know.”

“I’ll go forward and speak to her first chance I get,” said Vicki. Not
that Gravy’s abstract portrait provided a sure means of identifying the
girl, by any means. “Did she come on from California?”

“Her ticket doesn’t say, it just reads Chicago as point of origination.
But she could have started from California, and changed planes in
Chicago. That could involve two separate tickets.”

“That’s right. So her ticket doesn’t tell us anything. Gosh, I’m
intrigued! It _could_ very well be the right girl. Well, back to the
coffeemaker.”

Captain Tom Jordan had been delayed several minutes in take-off and
had notified the stewardesses he intended to make up the time during
flight. That meant Vicki and Jean had even less than the usual two
hours in which to take care of the needs of sixty-eight persons, and
set up and serve sixty-eight hot luncheons. The stewardesses hadn’t a
minute to spare. Vicki’s one chance to see Miss L. Rowe was when she
brought her a lunch tray.

[Illustration]

“Are you enjoying the flight, Miss Rowe?”

“Yes, it’s very smooth and pleasant.”

The girl glanced up as she spoke. She was in her early twenties and
did rather resemble the girl in Gravy’s vague portrait, except that
her hair was dark brown. Vicki had expected from the portrait that it
would be light brown. As for the squarish face, Vicki could not decide
whether Gravy had exaggerated its shape. Her large eyes and wide mouth
resembled the portrait. Did this girl look like a topnotch secretary?
She was trimly dressed, well groomed, and well made up. Did she look
like an outdoors girl? That was harder to guess.

Vicki looked to see whether Miss L. Rowe wore the Bryant family’s
silver ring; but she wore no rings at all. This, too, proved nothing.
Most women wore little or no jewelry while traveling. Vicki longed to
ask Miss Rowe her first name, but she had no right, no excuse, no time
to do so. She smiled at the girl and went on with her tasks.

The trouble started shortly before they were due to land. The captain’s
buzzer sounded on the stewardesses’ call board, and Vicki--wanting
another glance at Miss L. Rowe--went forward to the cockpit, unlocking
and then closing the steel door behind her.

In the bright fight of the cockpit she saw that the faces of the two
pilots and the navigator were strained but calm. Chuck Smith, the young
navigator, had his jacket off and sleeves rolled up, and there were
grease stains on his shirt and arms.

Captain Jordan said: “Vicki, we’re having a little trouble. We
discovered the nose wheel has not retracted properly.” Vicki knew it
was not uncommon for nose wheels to get stuck like this.

“We’ve tried everything we can to repair it, but no luck,” Captain
Jordan went on. “I’ve decided to make our scheduled landing, anyway.
I think the shock of landing will jolt the wheel down into place. We
have tricycle landing gear, so that this landing won’t be too risky. In
fact, I expect it to be a success. However, _if_ it doesn’t work, we’d
better be prepared.”

Vicki was trained for emergencies. Her heart pounded but she listened
calmly to the pilot.

“I want you and Jean to inform the passengers of our situation, and to
use emergency landing procedures. Just in case.”

“Yes, sir. How soon?”

“Start right away. You have about twenty minutes to prepare.”

“Yes, Captain Jordan.” Twenty minutes was ample time.

Back in the cabin she found Jean and repeated the pilot’s message. Then
each stewardess went to her half of the cabin and explained quietly
to the passengers. Vicki stressed that the landing very probably
would be a success, but because of the risk they must be prepared.
The passengers took the announcement as calmly as it was made. Vicki
realized that these sixty-eight people looked to her and Jean for
leadership; they must keep cool and move fast and accurately.

First, they saw to it that every passenger had his seat belt fastened
tightly, that all seats were in upright position, and that no one
was smoking. Then Vicki selected four men who told her they had had
military or aviation experience. Vicki quickly showed them how to
operate the lounge-door exit, window exits, ropes, and evacuation
slides when the plane landed. She and Jean were responsible for opening
the main-entrance door and the buffet-service door. Jean, meanwhile,
selected three passengers, showed them how to operate the three window
exits, and seated them there. Next, the stewardesses briefed the
passengers on locations of all the exits. They showed the passengers
how to brace their feet and arms, how to press their heads against
the seat in front of them in order to avoid being thrown forward and
getting bloody noses. The stewardesses quickly distributed pillows and
blankets for extra protection.

Jean showed the woman with the one baby aboard how to lock the baby in
her arms. Some of the men passengers removed parcels from the overhead
luggage racks and stowed them in the luggage and coat closets.

“Will you please remove all sharp objects,” Vicki said, walking along
the plane aisle. “Please remove your glasses, all pens and pencils,
brooches, belts with buckles, any sharp objects--” since these things
could stab. “Will the men please loosen their ties.” Then she hurried
to check the fire extinguishers, first-aid kit, all emergency equipment.

Sooner than Vicki expected, they were flying in over New York City.
The captain’s buzzer sounded. He said, “We’re cleared and coming down
any minute now.” Jean sat down in the forward cabin adjacent to the
main-entrance door, Vicki sat down in an aisle seat across from the
buffet-service door. They strapped themselves in.

Soaring down above the length of La Guardia Airport, everything below
looked as usual as on any other winter afternoon--except that two
emergency trucks for extinguishing fire came racing after them on
the ground. Vicki said a little prayer. She spoke confidently to the
passengers near her.

Dropping--dropping--now Vicki could see the faces of the men on the
field as the Electra flew low past them. They stopped working to watch,
and to help if necessary. Then the plane gave a terrific jolt, a jar
which Vicki felt to the roots of her teeth. Men and women swayed and
rolled in their seats, the baby cried, as the Electra touched ground.
The plane shuddered all over and rolled on to a stop. Safe! No one
thrown--nothing broken nor on fire--The nose wheel must have come down
exactly as Captain Jordan planned.

“Praise be!” Vicki exclaimed. She unstrapped and jumped to her feet.

She and Jean ran to reassure the children and the elderly among their
passengers. Everyone was shaken up, profoundly sobered, but relieved
and grateful. The men were inclined to joke now that the danger was
over. The two stewardesses made certain, and Captain Jordan came out to
make certain, that each passenger was all right. Not one person showed
panic or caused any trouble. Captain Jordan praised the stewardesses
for their share in maintaining high morale.

The cabin was littered with passengers’ garments, handbags, eyeglasses,
and pens. For several minutes Jean and Vicki were busy picking these
up. Everyone helped them. Or almost everyone--Vicki noticed that Miss
L. Rowe, like a few others, did not bother to help anyone but herself.

Something glistened on the plane’s carpet. Vicki picked it up: it was
a gold charm off a woman’s bracelet, inscribed “Dorothy.” She held it
high and asked: “Does anyone own a charm marked ‘Dorothy’?” Several
women shook their heads. Vicki hastily consulted the manifest with its
list of names. No woman passenger aboard had the name “Dorothy” or the
initial “D.”

“Does anyone own this gold charm?” Vicki asked, carrying it
conspicuously all through the cabin. It was a valuable piece of
jewelry. No one claimed it. She knew it was unlikely that the charm had
been left on the plane from a previous flight, since the cleaning crews
at terminals did a thorough job. The owner was aboard this very minute.
Why didn’t Dorothy--whoever she was--claim it?

The passengers began leaving the plane, the stewardesses managing an
orderly evacuation. There went Miss L. Rowe! Vicki was seized by an
irresistible curiosity to see whether the Bryants or Mr. Dorn would
meet the girl. With a promise to Jean Cox and the passenger agent
to come back, Vicki went down the plane stairs after Miss Rowe. She
followed her at a short distance across the airfield, into the crowded
terminal building, and out again at the front portico to the taxi
stand. Vicki watched Miss L. Rowe get directly into a taxi by herself,
without looking around to see whether anyone was waiting to meet her.
Apparently she didn’t expect to be met.

“Well, I guess she isn’t the right L. Rowe,” Vicki thought. “If she
were, the Bryants would at least have sent their car and chauffeur for
her. Or is her arrival a surprise? Even if it were, Mr. Dorn probably
would be on hand to escort her to the Bryants’ house,” Vicki reasoned.
“Wrong girl. That’s that. Just a coincidence of names and brown hair.”

In all likelihood the Bryants’ granddaughter--the girl with the brown
hair and green scarf which tallied with the portrait--was still at the
hill house near Pine Top.

Vicki still had the gold charm clutched in her hand. The “Lost and
Found” desk was only a few steps away. She went over and turned the
charm in. It was odd, she thought, that no one on the plane had claimed
it.

On her return to the Electra, she joined Jean in completing the final,
routine picking up in the cabin and putting equipment back into place.
After handing in their reports to the Flight Stewardess Supervisor,
Vicki and Jean went to the stewardesses’ sleeping lounge to have a nap
and tidy up. Now that the emergency was met and past, they admitted
they felt tired.

“We were lucky,” Jean murmured from the other cot.

“Luck and skill and a well-engineered plane,” Vicki answered.

She lay there on the cot thinking about the landing preparations, the
unclaimed charm, and Miss L. Rowe. Her thoughts drifted on to the
Bryants. Suddenly she sat up, took a few coins from her purse, and
walked next door to the stewardesses’ lounge.

“Where you going?” Jean called after her sleepily.

“I’m going to telephone Mrs. Bryant.”

She wanted to tell Lucy’s grandmother that although she had not yet
been able to deliver her message, she had, to the best of her belief,
located Lucy and actually seen her from the air.

A secretary answered. The Bryants were not at home. She evidently knew
from Mrs. Bryant who Vicki was. Vicki decided not to relay her news of
Lucy secondhand and asked the secretary for an appointment. Vicki said
she expected to be in New York again, with free time, next Sunday and
Monday.

“I’m sure that Mrs. Bryant would be delighted to see you at lunch or
tea,” said the secretary. “I’ve put you down for tea at four on Sunday,
Miss Barr.”

“Thank you, that’s perfect. Until Sunday, then.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Between that memorable Tuesday and the following Sunday, the first
of March, Vicki flew three more Electra flights between New York and
Chicago, with two days off in Chicago between flights. On one rest day
her mother took the local train from Fairview up to Chicago, and they
spent a happy day together.

On her other rest day, Vicki stayed at her Chicago hotel. Resting, she
tried to plan exactly what she was going to tell Lucy’s grandmother
when she visited the Bryants’ house on Sunday. What disturbed Vicki was
the fact that she had learned some things about Lucy which Mr. Dorn, in
San Francisco a month or so earlier, had not learned and possibly could
have learned. Allowing that Mr. Dorn had missed meeting Lucy, as she
herself had, and allowing that her own visit came a month later, still,
either she or Mr. Dorn could be mistaken. And Vicki did not want to
give Mrs. Bryant any wrong information, or raise any false hopes.

“I’m going to ask Mrs. Bryant the exact dates when Mr. Dorn was in San
Francisco,” Vicki thought. “Because _if_ he was there during the time
Lucy became involved with Mrs. Heath, it’s strange he didn’t find out
about that. Unless”--an odd idea struck her--“Mrs. Heath dodged Mr.
Dorn’s inquiries and managed to keep him from learning of Lucy’s new
job? Mrs. Heath avoided meeting the minister, didn’t she? She managed
things so that a good friend like Gravy never met her, didn’t she? Hmm.”

Reviewing the few facts she had learned about Lucy’s new job, Vicki had
to admit they were sketchy and elusive. It even occurred to her, in a
wave of skepticism, that the girl she had seen from the air _might_ not
necessarily be Lucy Rowe. A green scarf and light-brown hair were not
conclusive proof.

“Oh, it’s likely that girl _is_ Lucy Rowe,” Vicki thought, impatient
with herself. “Why don’t I be sensible and see, on Sunday, what Mr.
Dorn has learned in the meantime? Maybe what he’s discovered by then
and what I’ve discovered will tally, after all.”

She daydreamed about Sunday, and the pleasure she hoped it would give
Mrs. Bryant to hear her news of Lucy.

       *       *       *       *       *

The minute Vicki entered the Bryant house on Sunday afternoon she
sensed the excitement there. The whole household had changed its
mood: every lamp and chandelier in every room was alight, bouquets of
fresh-cut flowers bloomed everywhere, dance music came from a radio.
The house seemed young!

Mr. and Mrs. Bryant, when Vicki entered the room with the parakeets,
looked as if they had waked up from a long sleep, refreshed and happy.
They both were beaming. Mr. Bryant had a flower in his buttonhole, and
Mrs. Bryant was as flushed as a girl in her rustling taffeta dress.
Vicki had never seen them in such festive spirits. Around the tea
service were trays of tiny, fancy sandwiches and cakes, ready for a
party. Vicki, trying not to look inquisitive, said good afternoon.

“Vicki, how nice to see you!” Mrs. Bryant took her hand and drew her
into the room. “You’re right on time. Our other guests are coming at
five, but I especially wanted you here early. You’ll see why.”

“I’m so glad to see you again,” said Vicki. “I hope you’re both well.”

“We’re feeling exceedingly well,” said Mr. Bryant. “Mrs. Bryant has a
surprise which she thinks you’ll enjoy.”

“Now, Marshall, you mustn’t spoil my surprise. First I want to ask
Vicki where she’s been flying recently, and all about the fascinating
people on her plane--”

“I think I hear her coming downstairs,” Marshall Bryant interrupted.

Mrs. Bryant looked flustered. Vicki, to help her, said her last few
trips were probably not as special as Mrs. Bryant’s surprise. The
elderly lady smiled at her delightedly.

“Well, my dear, it _is_ a most wonderful surprise for Mr. Bryant and
me. Just wait--one more moment, now--” Vicki heard someone’s light,
quick footsteps. “Vicki, Mr. Dorn has found our granddaughter. Ah, here
she is!”

A slender dark-haired girl, taller than Vicki, came into the room. She
was the Miss L. Rowe who had been on Vicki’s plane. She lightly kissed
both elderly people, and smiled politely when Mrs. Bryant said:

“Lucy, this is Vicki Barr who is about your age. She’s the one who was
so helpful to your grandfather on our airplane trip.”

“How do you do, Miss Barr?” If the girl recognized her, she gave not
the slightest sign.

“I remember you on my plane earlier this week,” Vicki said pleasantly.
She started to say how excited she’d been on finding a Miss L. Rowe
aboard, but caught herself just in time. Mrs. Bryant _had_ requested
her not to mention her own search to anyone. It was likely that Mrs.
Bryant had not told even Lucy this secret. Then Vicki noticed that Lucy
Rowe was staring at her blankly, as if she had never seen the flight
stewardess before.

“You remember, Miss Rowe,” Vicki said, “the day we nearly had to make
an emergency landing.”

Lucy Rowe gave her a forced smile and turned away. Vicki was astonished.

“Why, Lucy,” her grandmother said, “you didn’t tell us about any
difficulty in landing!”

“It was nothing. I didn’t want to alarm you,” the girl said. “May I
have a cup of that nice, hot tea? I’m not used to your cold weather in
New York--but I expect I’ll love it here. Who else is coming today? I’m
so eager to be presented to your friends.... No, I won’t mind a bit
that they’re all older people.”

Lucy chattered on. Although Mrs. Bryant was eager for the two girls to
be friendly, it seemed to Vicki that Lucy avoided conversing with her.
Particularly it seemed that Lucy did not want last Tuesday’s flight
mentioned again. Evidently it embarrassed her in some way.

“I wonder why?” Vicki thought. She would not be so tactless as to raise
the subject again, of course. “But why does Lucy Rowe act as if she’s
never seen me before?”

Vicki felt embarrassed and disappointed. She’d anticipated a lively,
warmhearted, approachable girl--from the several descriptions of
Lucy Rowe--not someone so very charming and sophisticated. Lucy was
affectionate toward the Bryants, and they were already devoted to their
new-found granddaughter. Vicki saw the lacelike silver ring that Lucy
wore. She recognized it as the Bryant family’s ring, no doubt about
that. Vicki said, hoping to prompt her to talk:

“What a lovely and unusual ring you’re wearing, Miss Rowe.”

“Thank you.” Lucy held out her hand for Vicki to inspect the ring, and
said, “I value this ring more than I can tell you, because it’s a
family heirloom. Mother gave it to me, and I’ve worn it constantly ever
since she died. It hasn’t ever been off my finger, not even once.”

Mrs. Bryant murmured appreciatively, even Marshall Bryant looked
touched. But Vicki was thinking, “_You didn’t wear the silver ring last
Tuesday on my flight. I looked, I made sure--_”

Why was Lucy lying? A lie about the ring--an evasion about having been
on Vicki’s plane--what else would she lie about? Vicki was puzzled and
troubled. She managed to conceal it, for if something was amiss here,
she must not arouse the girl’s suspicions. She needed to gain more
information.

“I think it’s wonderful that Mr. Dorn found your granddaughter so
soon,” Vicki said to Mrs. Bryant, hoping she would talk.

“Yes, Mr. Dorn found her on his second trip to San Francisco,” Mrs.
Bryant said, looking warmly at Lucy. “He flew out there just last week
on Friday, and by the following Sunday--exactly a week ago today, I
remember it was Washington’s Birthday, February twenty-second--he wired
us that he had found our young lady.”

“_Last Sunday_,” Vicki thought. “_And I saw the girl I took to be Lucy
at Pine Top last Saturday._”

Lucy said, with a little laugh, “I was the most surprised girl in the
world when Mr. Dorn appeared and told me that my grandparents wanted
me. And the happiest girl.”

Marshall Bryant lighted a fresh cigar and gave a grunt of approval.
“Dorn is a good man.”

Vicki thought, “_Have I made a mistake and traced the wrong Lucy? I
don’t see how. Yet surely Mr. Dorn, who’s a lawyer, and who has time
and money to work with, didn’t make any mistake?_”

“Of course we wanted to meet our granddaughter instantly, the very next
day after Mr. Dorn’s telegram,” Mrs. Bryant said with a smile. “He flew
back to New York and came to tell us--Lucy, darling, you can’t imagine
how absurdly disappointed your grandfather and I were when Mr. Dorn
told us that you needed a little time to settle your affairs in San
Francisco, and would fly east by yourself.”

“I could hardly wait, too,” Lucy said. “I practically ran, in San
Francisco, doing all my good-bys and chores. Even so, the fastest I
could get here to you was Thursday.”

“_Thursday!_” Vicki nearly exclaimed aloud. “_Why, this Miss L. Rowe
was on my plane on Tuesday. She left La Guardia Airport, alone, at
three o’clock Tuesday afternoon--I saw her--but she didn’t meet her
grandparents until Thursday! Where was she during that interval?_”

Lucy leaned toward her grandparents. “And when Mr. Dorn met me at La
Guardia Airport on Thursday afternoon I was terribly nervous about
meeting you! He had to talk quietly to me for about half an hour before
I’d even get in the car.”

Another lie, Vicki thought angrily. Or had this girl returned to the
airport two afternoons later and pretended to Mr. Dorn that she had
just got off the plane? So this was why, Vicki realized, Lucy Rowe did
not want any mention of her having been on the New York-bound plane on
_Tuesday_ afternoon. Vicki said guardedly:

“New York is a wonderful place but so is your city, Miss Rowe. I’m just
getting to know San Francisco on occasional visits. It’s a fascinating
place. In what part of the city did you live?”

“For a while I lived on Telegraph Hill, wonderful views from there.
Then three other girls and I took a beach house one summer. It was fun,
but such a lot of commuting to my job.”

No mention of the women’s hotel, Hotel Alcott. No mention of sharing an
apartment with Mary Scott and her mother. That did not tally with what
Vicki had learned. Lucy had answered readily, even glibly. Vicki tried
another tack.

“Some of the best views in New York,” she said, “are from high up in
the office buildings. Is that true in San Francisco? Was it so on your
job?”

Lucy looked amused. “I worked so hard at Whitney Decorators that there
wasn’t much time to admire the views.”

“Poor darling,” said her grandmother.

“Oh, no, it was a perfectly nice job with nice people,” Lucy said. “But
I was awfully happy to give it up and come to you.”

No mention of working for the Interstate Insurance Company. Was the
interior-decorator job a fact or another lie? If a fact, _when_ had
Lucy worked for a decorator? And why didn’t she mention her job with
Mrs. Heath? Lucy made it sound as if she had been employed in a San
Francisco office building at the time when Mr. Dorn had found her a
week ago. Vicki knew she had resigned from Interstate about a month
earlier, and had gone to Pine Top a couple of weeks later. Why all
these lies? If this girl was actually Lucy, she was trading on the love
of her grandparents. Or if she was an impostor, she must be very clever
to have fooled Mr. Dorn.

Vicki said to her, “I’m not sure, but I _think_ that I met an
acquaintance of yours while I was in San Francisco. Jill--I can’t
remember her last name--” Vicki pretended.

“Was it Jill Baker?” said Lucy. “Such a nice girl.”

Vicki nodded and did not press the point.

Not Jill Baker--that name was Jill Joseph. Unless Baker had been Jill’s
name before her marriage? Vicki decided to check the next time she was
in San Francisco. She noticed that Lucy did not mention her old friend
Jill’s living in her family’s former house, nor their having been in
school together--in fact, nothing about Jill. Didn’t this girl know
Jill Joseph? Lucy again chattered along, changing the subject. Or was
the omission of no importance?

Just then Thurman Dorn came in.




CHAPTER VIII

_A Game of Wits_


For a moment Vicki wished she had never gotten mixed up in the search
for Lucy Rowe. The lawyer looked so cold, so professional, that her own
small efforts to find Lucy shrank to absurdity. How impertinent she
would appear if Mrs. Bryant happened to tell about Vicki’s search--how
difficult it would be to justify to the lawyer her doubts about _this_
girl.

Vicki glanced beseechingly toward the grandmother. Very, very slightly,
Mrs. Bryant shook her head. Did that mean she was not going to reveal
their secret? Vicki hoped so. She glanced away just in time to hear and
answer Mr. Dorn’s “How do you do?”

“Careful, now,” Vicki warned herself. “Don’t say or ask anything which
could alert Lucy that I suspect her. And I mustn’t intrude on Mr.
Dorn’s territory, particularly since Mr. Bryant has praised him so
highly.”

The lawyer seated himself at Marshall Bryant’s right. He was a
perfectly correct and formal figure as he accepted a cup of tea from
Lucy. She made a little fuss over the young lawyer, and her grandmother
teased her about it.

“Well, just think of what Mr. Dorn has done for me!” Lucy answered,
laughing. “He’s the one who found me, and I shall always be grateful
to him.” She shook her head, remembering. “Last Sunday, this stranger
came to me asking to see my family letters and my silver ring. Asking
me to identify myself. At first I didn’t know whether to take Mr. Dorn
seriously.”

Vicki longed to know if they had met at Pine Top, but she could not
afford to ask questions.

Thurman Dorn smiled a little. “I can tell you now, Miss Lucy, that
a month earlier I was exasperated at not finding you. And your
grandparents”--he turned toward them deferentially--“were exasperated
with _me_. It’s a good thing for all of us that you came back to San
Francisco from your vacation. If you hadn’t met me in the lobby of the
St. Clair Hotel last Sunday, I believe I would have sent out some sort
of alarm for you.”

So they had met last Sunday in San Francisco, Vicki noted. That meant
Lucy had come in from Pine Top. Reasonable enough. But why did Lucy
give Dorn and the Bryants the impression that her tour with Mrs. Heath
was a “vacation”? Vicki wanted to see whether Lucy would mention, in
the course of conversation, Mrs. Heath or the Reverend Mr. Hall or
Knowlton Graves.

Curiously, she did not mention them and Mr. Dorn did not, either.
He did talk in detail about his methods of search and the fine
co-operation he had received from the San Francisco Post Office and
Police Department. Mr. Dorn named persons and places involved in his
search--Whitney Decorators, Lucy’s old Telegraph Hill residential
address (where he couldn’t find her), a Dr. Alice James who was Lucy’s
and Lucy’s mother’s physician. Vicki had not unearthed any of these in
the course of her own search in and around San Francisco. Not one of
them! This was nightmarish!

“_Then who is the girl I traced to Pine Top?_” Vicki thought again, in
utter bewilderment. “_Is this girl the same girl I saw? No, she isn’t.
This girl’s hair is very dark brown, sable brown, and that girl’s was
almost dark blond._”

Yet, Vicki thought, in tracing Lucy Rowe herself, she had received
straightforward answers from Jill Joseph, Mrs. Stacey at the Hotel
Alcott, Mr. Hall, Gravy. _They_ obviously were not lying because all
their accounts of Lucy Rowe tallied and dovetailed. Vicki could only
think:

“_Either Mr. Dorn has been misled by this girl who is lying, or--less
likely--the lawyer’s lying. Or--more likely--I’ve made some glaring
error._”

In fairness to all concerned, she could do only one thing: check back
on the facts in San Francisco, this coming week. She must try to keep
an open mind. Even so, she felt uneasy about this avowed Lucy and her
several lies and evasions. She was startled out of her thoughts when
the girl said:

“Mr. Dorn, Miss Barr met a friend of mine in San Francisco. Isn’t that
a coincidence?”

“Small world,” he said casually, though he paid attention to Vicki for
the first time since he had come in. “Are you in San Francisco often,
Miss Barr?”

Vicki noticed that Mrs. Bryant had grown tense. Evading Dorn’s
question, she simply said:

“I’m in San Francisco only when my airline sends me there. It isn’t too
often.”

“Oh, yes, I remember now,” said Dorn. “You’re a stewardess on--?”

“Federal Airlines,” said Vicki.

Mr. Dorn nodded and lost interest, and started to talk to Marshall
Bryant about something else. Vicki half waited for Lucy to ask her a
question about Jill Baker or make some further remark about Vicki’s
being in San Francisco. But Lucy, too, dropped the subject.

Mr. Bryant, Mr. Dorn, and Lucy went into the next room to discuss some
legal papers. Mrs. Bryant came over to Vicki.

“Will you accompany me upstairs, my dear? I want to--ah--show you
something of interest.”

A pretext? So that they could talk together privately? Vicki wondered
whether the elderly lady shared her doubts as to whether this girl was
actually the Bryants’ granddaughter.

She did not. Indeed, she told Vicki how happy she was “that Mr. Dorn
has found Eleanor’s daughter,” and what a fine girl she considered her
to be. “I can see something of Eleanor in her, in little ways.”

“In what ways?” Vicki asked. “Does she look like her mother?”

“N-no, Lucy doesn’t really resemble Eleanor--or Jack Rowe, either. But
then I never resembled _my_ parents! No, she reminds me of Eleanor in
a certain dignity and reserve which she has, and in--oh--maybe I’m
imagining it, but in little mannerisms--

“And Lucy knows so much about our family history,” Mrs. Bryant went
on. “It’s gratifying to me, naturally, that she takes such a great
interest in the family. It--In fact, it’s--” The lady hesitated. “I
almost wonder, considering her youth and the family’s separation, how
it’s possible for her to have learned so much family history. In such
detail, too.”

Vicki waited for Mrs. Bryant to think further about her doubt, to pay
attention to this danger signal. But the elderly lady smiled and said:

“Lucy’s family loyalty accounts for her remarkable knowledge, of
course.”

Vicki said nothing, but she did not necessarily agree. The Marshall
Bryant family was a prominent one; from time to time newspapers and
magazines mentioned their activities and printed photographs; Mr.
Bryant’s career was listed in _Who’s Who_. What was there to prevent a
clever, unscrupulous girl from going to the public library in any big
city, looking up these facts, and memorizing them?

A question occurred to Vicki: How had this girl, _if_ she was an
impostor, discovered that Thurman Dorn was seeking the young heiress
to a fortune? She could have found out in a number of ways--something
overheard, a newspaper notice inquiring about Lucy Rowe, even a word
dropped by Lucy herself. And how had this girl sidetracked Mr. Dorn
from finding the true Lucy? Was it more than a coincidence that Dorn
had been unable to find Lucy on his first trip to San Francisco? Was it
more than a coincidence that another girl named Lucy Rowe had gone away
on a job to a lonely place like Pine Top? Vicki shivered.

Mrs. Bryant was saying, “I couldn’t be happier, and I couldn’t be more
grateful to Thurman Dorn. He’s done a wonderful thing in reuniting the
three of us.” The lady said hastily, “I appreciate the interest _you_
took in this matter, Vicki. I hope you didn’t put yourself to any
trouble.”

“Nothing worth mentioning, at least not now, Mrs. Bryant.” How and what
could she tell of her own search under the circumstances?

“My husband says Mr. Dorn located Lucy comparatively quickly, after so
many years of silence.”

Vicki remembered the questions she wanted to ask. “Mrs. Bryant, about
Mr. Dorn’s search--do you happen to recall the exact dates of his
first trip to San Francisco?”

“I remember every detail of the search for our granddaughter. Mr. Dorn
said he was in San Francisco his first trip from January tenth to
twenty-third. His second trip was February twentieth to twenty-second.”
Vicki imprinted these dates on her memory. “Don’t you think Mr. Dorn
was quick to find Lucy on his second trip? Apparently his efforts on
the first trip paid off.”

“Yes, indeed,” Vicki said, trying to keep the doubt out of her voice.
“Mrs. Bryant, you--you haven’t told anyone that you wanted me to try to
get in touch with Lucy?”

“Oh, no, indeed!” Mrs. Bryant laughed. “Wouldn’t you and I look
foolish, now that Lucy is here? I was foolish ever to make such a
request of you, I’m afraid. Why don’t we simply forget our little
secret?”

Vicki smiled, but she had no intention of dropping her search, not
after meeting that dark-haired girl today.

“Vicki, as a matter of sentiment, this morning I took the other silver
ring out of the safe here in the house to show you. Come in here with
me, won’t you?”

Vicki followed Lucy’s grandmother into an old-fashioned bedroom. From
a bureau drawer she took a silver ring, exactly like the one the
dark-haired girl wore.

“You see, Vicki? It _is_ unusual. There isn’t another ring like it
anywhere except Lucy’s. A jeweler made just the two from his own
original design, and then destroyed the pattern. Mr. Bryant had them
made when Eleanor was born.”

“It’s lovely, like filigree or lace,” Vicki said.

Mrs. Bryant said she would return the ring to the safe, and suggested
they go downstairs.

Mr. Bryant and Mr. Dorn had finished their business, and Lucy had
disappeared in order to powder her nose. It was five o’clock. Other
guests were beginning to arrive. Although the Bryants urged her to
stay, Vicki asked to be excused. She had experienced quite enough for
one afternoon.

She returned to the apartment which she shared with several other
Federal Airlines stewardesses. Jean Cox was at home, writing letters
to her family. She said Charmion Wilson and Dot Crowley had just come
in from their Texas run, and were asleep in the front bedroom. Tessa
and Celia were working aloft somewhere along the Atlantic seaboard. The
stewardesses’ housekeeper, Mrs. Duff, was out visiting friends.

Vicki was glad that the apartment, so often full of guests and parties,
was quiet this Sunday. She wanted to be alone for a little while,
to write down the names, dates, and addresses she had learned this
afternoon at the Bryants’, and to plan her next steps.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the following Wednesday, March fourth, before Vicki’s scheduled
New York-Chicago-San Francisco flight landed her in San Francisco
again. She had fumed at the delay but now she had three days--Thursday,
Friday, Saturday--off. “And I’m going to make good use of them!”

She wanted tremendously to fly at once to Pine Top, but it would be
foolish to go unprepared, with spotty information. Her first step,
obviously, must be to check on the statements she had heard Lucy and
Mr. Dorn make on Sunday.

Vicki decided to make full use of the telephone. In her hotel room she
collected paper, pencils, the telephone directory, her list of names
and addresses, which Dorn and Lucy had mentioned in accounting for
Lucy’s recent past. Then Vicki sat down at the telephone.

First she called up Jill Joseph, out in Sutro Heights. When Jill
answered, Vicki could hear in the background a babble of children’s
voices and dogs barking. She and Vicki exchanged hellos, and then Vicki
asked:

“Have you heard from Lucy?”

“No, I haven’t,” Jill Joseph answered. “It’s beginning to worry me.
Have you?”

Vicki hesitated. “I’m still trying to get news of her. Tell me
again--is her hair light brown or dark brown?”

“Light brown. Lucy calls it dirty blond.”

The alleged Lucy Rowe at the Bryants’ house had dark, sable-brown hair.

“Would Lucy color her hair, do you think?” Vicki asked.

“I can’t imagine why she would, its natural color is pretty. She never
_has_ tinted it.”

Vicki said she had an even stranger question, and asked Jill Joseph
what her maiden name had been.

“Rossiter. Why, for goodness’ sake?”

“Do you know--or does Lucy know--anyone named Jill Baker?” Vicki asked.

“Never heard of Jill Baker. Vicki, all these questions--is something
wrong?”

Again Vicki hesitated. “There may be. I’m trying to find out. One more
question--did you ever hear from a Mr. Dorn?” Jill had not. “Or from a
girl, or anyone else, inquiring about Lucy?”

“No,” said Jill Joseph. “You’re the only one.” Well, that proved
nothing. Mr. Dorn’s line of investigation need not have included an
old friend whom Lucy now saw only occasionally. “Vicki? If something’s
wrong, why don’t you report it to the police?”

“Because I’m not positive anything _is_ wrong. Besides, there’s a
delicate situation here.” Vicki was not at liberty to mention the
Bryants and their dislike of publicity; if the police stepped in, the
newspapers would get wind of the story. Vicki said, “I really don’t
think it’s necessary to go to the police. Don’t worry.”

“Well, I am worried. Let me know as soon as you have any news of Lucy,
will you, please?”

Vicki promised, said good-by, and hung up.

Would the Scotts be home from their trip by now? According to Jill
Joseph, Lucy had lived with Mary Scott and Mrs. Scott. Dorn and Lucy
in New York had never mentioned them. Why? Vicki tried the Scotts’
telephone number, which Jill Joseph had given her earlier.

A woman’s voice answered. Vicki introduced herself, and explained that
she was trying to locate Lucy Rowe.

“This is Mrs. Scott,” the voice said. “I don’t see why you should have
any trouble in locating Lucy, Miss Barr. She has an excellent job with
a Mrs. Heath.... Well, no, Mary and I haven’t heard from her.... No,
Lucy was _not_ traveling with us, not at any time.”

But Mr. Dorn had told the Bryants that day at luncheon that Lucy was
traveling with another girl and the girl’s mother. Had the lawyer lied?
Such a minor point to lie about. Or had he honestly misunderstood
Lucy’s trip with Mrs. Heath to be a trip with the Scotts? There was no
way of knowing. Vicki set aside this question of traveling and tried
another.

“Mrs. Scott, did Lucy _live_ with you and your daughter?”

“Yes, she shared our apartment for several months. Then, last January,
she moved to the Hotel Alcott for women.”

Last Sunday, when Vicki asked Lucy Rowe where she’d lived in San
Francisco, the girl had not mentioned the Scotts and the Hotel Alcott.
Instead, she’d talked of living on Telegraph Hill and, one summer,
sharing a beach house with three other girls.

“Mrs. Scott,” Vicki asked, “can you give me Lucy’s former address on
Telegraph Hill?”

“Why, Lucy _never_ lived on Telegraph Hill, to the best of my
knowledge.” No wonder Mr. Dorn had said he couldn’t find Lucy there.

“Did she share a beach house one summer with three other girls?” Vicki
asked.

“If she did, Lucy never mentioned it to us. And it isn’t like her to be
secretive. I think you must have some wrong information, Miss Barr.”

“I guess I have.” Unless the alleged Lucy’s story of the beach house
and living on Telegraph Hill was an out-and-out falsehood. Or unless
she was _another_ Lucy Rowe?

“Mrs. Scott, Lucy Rowe isn’t an uncommon name. The Lucy Rowe I’m
looking for is the daughter of Eleanor Bryant Rowe and Jack Rowe, both
of them deceased.”

“Yes, that’s right. That’s the Lucy we know--the Lucy who stayed with
us.”

Then the presumed granddaughter in New York _was_ lying. Vicki sighed.
“I’m sorry to have troubled you, Mrs. Scott.”

“Not at all. Any more questions?... Good-by, then, Miss Barr.”

Well, in fairness to Mr. Dorn, _he_ had not mentioned the beach house
and Telegraph Hill. The lie was the girl’s.

Vicki consulted her list of names and addresses. She was feeling
rather grim about these lies. She decided to check with Whitney
Decorators, where the presumed Lucy had said she had been employed.

There was no Whitney Decorators listed in the regular telephone
directory, nor in the Classified Advertisements telephone book. Vicki
called a professional association of decorators. They had no knowledge
of a firm or person named Whitney. Next, Vicki called Information. She
waited while the operator looked up the name.

“We have no record of any firm by that name. However, there are several
persons named Whitney listed in your regular directory, if you care to
call them.”

Vicki did that. Not one of them was a decorator nor even in any allied
field. Not one of them had ever heard of a Lucy Rowe.

So that was that. An outright lie! Vicki tried to recall whether Mr.
Dorn had been party to this lie. No, as she remembered the talk last
Sunday, only Lucy had mentioned Whitney Decorators.

“I suppose,” Vicki thought, “that seeing her silver ring and family
letters convinced Mr. Dorn that he had found the right Lucy. How in the
world did she come by the ring and other family things, if she’s an
impostor? It doesn’t seem possible! Unless she stole them from the true
Lucy?”

That was perfectly possible--though Vicki had no way of proving it, as
yet.

Dr. Alice James.... Let’s see, it was _Dorn_ who last Sunday had
brought up this physician’s name. Vicki remembered how he had made
rather a point of telling that Dr. James had been both Lucy’s and
Lucy’s mother’s physician.

Vicki had difficulty in locating an address and telephone number for
Dr. Alice James, in San Francisco or in any of its suburbs. She used
the same methods as in her search for Whitney Decorators, with the same
result: there was no record of any Dr. Alice James. No such person
existed.

Lucy in New York had lied again. _And on this point, Mr. Dorn had lied._

Up to now Vicki had more or less dismissed her doubts about why Dorn’s
findings did not tally with hers, by taking the blame for any error
upon herself. But now she was brought up short. Mr. Dorn _was_ guilty
of a lie about the search for Lucy Rowe!

It struck her as odd that, so far as she had checked today, he had lied
only about this _one_ point--about the nonexistent Dr. Alice James. On
what other points involving Dorn could she check?

“Well, Mr. Dorn said he met Lucy last Sunday in the lobby of the St.
Clair Hotel,” Vicki recalled, “and Mr. Bryant, that first day at lunch,
mentioned Dorn’s being at the St. Clair Hotel. I assume Dorn stayed
there on his second visit last week, too. Let’s see what a check turns
up on that.”

She tried calling the St. Clair Hotel, but the desk would not release
any information over the telephone. Vicki powdered her nose, put on
her hat and gloves, and went over to the hotel.

She was obliged to see the hotel manager, prove who she was, and state
her business (as far as she discreetly could) before she could persuade
him to have an assistant look up back records. The assistant, a Mr.
Craig, finally told her:

“Mr. Thurman Dorn stayed at this hotel from January twelfth through
January twenty-first, and overnight on February twenty-first.”

But these dates did not fully tally with Mrs. Bryant’s statement!
According to her, Dorn was in San Francisco, and presumably at this
hotel, January tenth to twenty-third, and February twentieth to
twenty-second. Two days were unaccounted for at the beginning of his
January trip, and two days were unaccounted for at the end of his
January trip. Also, two days were unaccounted for on his February trip.
Where had Dorn been? At another San Francisco hotel? Not likely, no
point to it. At Pine Top? But in January, Lucy and Mrs. Heath had not
yet left San Francisco for Pine Top, so Dorn would have had no reason
to be there. And in February--on Sunday, February twenty-second--Dorn
and Lucy had said they met in this hotel lobby.

Where had Mr. Dorn been on those unaccounted-for days, and what had he
been doing? Since he flew from coast to coast, traveling had not eaten
up those several extra days. Unless he had made a stopover somewhere en
route, and not come directly from New York to San Francisco? But that
was sheer speculation.

Vicki walked back toward her own hotel, wondering. A total of six days
unaccounted for! A great deal could happen in six days. Especially
during the course of an intensive search--That brought another
question to mind. Why had neither the presumed Lucy _nor Mr. Dorn_
ever mentioned Mrs. Heath or Graves, the painter, or the Reverend Mr.
Hall? Lucy Rowe was closely associated with these three people, yet the
Bryants had never been informed of their existence.

“Even if Lucy in New York hadn’t wanted Mr. Dorn to know about these
three people,” Vicki thought, “Dorn could have found about them on his
own, just as I did.”

Her mistrust of Dorn grew. Either the lawyer had made an inadequate,
misleading investigation--or he had discovered the existence of Mrs.
Heath, Gravy, Mr. Hall, but was not telling the Bryants about them for
some reason. The reason was sadly obvious. Dorn--Dorn and the alleged
Lucy together--did not want to give the Bryants the names and addresses
of three persons who could help the grandparents find the true Lucy.

“Yet that may not be true at all. I’m only speculating,” Vicki reminded
herself. “Before I can believe anything, or say anything to the
Bryants, I must get proof--more facts.”

Even more urgent than proof was the need--assuming the Lucy in New York
to be an impostor--to find the true Lucy Rowe. Was she the girl seen
at Pine Top? If not, who was that light-brown-haired girl? “I promised
myself to fly back to Pine Top,” Vicki thought. “It seems the time is
now.”

Returning to her hotel room, she picked up the telephone, called Novato
Airport, and reserved the Cessna 150 for tomorrow. Perhaps she would
discover something of real importance back there in the hills.




CHAPTER IX

_Secrets at Midnight_


Timing was important. Vicki had figured her flight from San Francisco
in the Cessna 150 to bring her in over Pine Top just about dusk. With
nightfall, and the story she planned to tell, she hoped to _have_ to
stay overnight at the hidden house. She hoped to give Mrs. Heath no
choice, no chance decently to send her away. During the night there
should be time and privacy to talk with Lucy, or whoever the girl
really was--provided Mrs. Heath did not intrude on them.

It was a bold plan, not foolproof by any means. Vicki had sense enough
to be scared.

High up in the hills, Vicki left the few houses of Pine Top behind.
She headed the plane higher over the wooded mountainside, flew over
the woods and wall at the extreme end of the Glidden place. Then she
cut her speed as she came soaring out above the meadow. This was the
landing site inside the walled grounds which she had chosen last time.

Vicki could not see either woman anywhere down there on the shadowy
grounds, but lights were on in the house. Someone was at home. Landing
on the meadow near the rear of the house, she made the plane’s
perfectly tuned engine as noisy as she could, so the women would hear
her.

The kitchen door flew open. A girl came out, running toward the plane.
An older woman followed more slowly. Vicki already was opening the
engine hood and had assumed an anxious expression.

“What do you mean by landing on our grounds?” the woman called out.

“I was forced down--I beg your pardon--” Vicki called back. “I’m
having engine trouble--”

The girl reached her side. “Are you all right?”

In one swift glance in the half-light, Vicki took in the girl’s
light-brown hair and open, friendly gaze. She was very like the girl
in Gravy’s portrait, rather tall and athletic as Jill Joseph had said.
What’s more, she wore the Bryant silver ring! “I’ve found her,” Vicki
thought, but she hid her exultation.

“Yes, thanks, I’m all right,” she answered.

“You can’t stay here,” the woman said, coming up. “This is really
annoying! Surely you weren’t forced to land right in our laps!”

“I’m sorry,” Vicki said again. “I’ll try to repair the engine and take
off in a few minutes. Although in this fading light it’s hard”--she
looked in the engine--“to see where the trouble is.”

She glanced up to study the elusive Mrs. Elizabeth Heath. The woman did
have quite an air of authority, of poise. She was well-dressed and held
her gray head high. Beside her, Lucy seemed very young and unsure of
herself.

“Can I help you?” the girl asked Vicki. She _was_ a warmhearted girl,
as Jill had said. “Not that I know about plane engines--”

“I don’t know an awful lot about them myself,” Vicki said pointedly.

“Then how do you expect to make the repair?” Mrs. Heath said in
exasperation. “I think you had better call up a garage--you may use my
telephone--or an airport, and have them come and get you out of here.”

The girl said, “I’m afraid there isn’t a garage within miles of here,
Mrs. Heath. And no airport.”

Mrs. Heath fumed while Vicki poked in the engine. Vicki straightened up.

“This engine is rough from carburetor trouble. Or there may be a little
water in the engine. Whatever it is, I don’t want to fly at night with
a rough engine and be forced down in the dark.”

There was a silence. Then Mrs. Heath said, “No, I suppose you can’t be
expected to take such a risk.”

Lucy asked, “Can’t she possibly stay here overnight, Mrs. Heath?”

“Well, I don’t wish to appear harsh, but I really hadn’t counted on
having a guest. We were planning to do some work this evening, you
know.”

Vicki apologized for disturbing them, and said that if they could
possibly put her up she wouldn’t be a nuisance. “Of course I’d want to
reimburse you, and I’d leave early in the morning,” Vicki pleaded.

“But really--” Mrs. Heath protested.

“Perhaps someone in Pine Top could take you in,” Lucy said. “I could--I
mean, we could,” Lucy corrected herself, “drive her down to Pine Top
and ask around.”

“No, no,” Mrs. Heath said hastily. “We’ve steered clear of our
inquisitive neighbors so far. Besides, I shouldn’t care to drive down
that mountain road at night.” In a friendlier tone she said, “You may
have the extra bedroom. I’m Mrs. Heath, and this is my young friend,
Lucy Rowe.”

“How do you do?” Vicki said and gave her name. “I’ve flown in from San
Francisco. My home is in Illinois. I’ve been in San Francisco just for
a short stay.”

“I’m from San Francisco,” Lucy said eagerly, “and a little homesick for
it.”

Mrs. Heath interrupted, saying they had better go in the house and see
about dinner. She led the way around through the side garden and, via a
side door, into the large, long living room of the country house. Mrs.
Heath was being an amiable if resigned hostess. She asked Lucy to take
their guest up to the extra room and see that she would be comfortable.

“But please come right down, Lucy,” said Mrs. Heath. Didn’t she want
Lucy to talk alone with a stranger? “I’m sure that we’re all hungry for
dinner.”

Upstairs, Lucy led Vicki to a small, rear bedroom. The large front
bedroom adjoining was Mrs. Heath’s, with its door closed. Across from
Mrs. Heath’s room was Lucy’s smaller front room, with its door open. A
short hall connected all three bedrooms and the bathroom. Vicki noted
the layout, planning where it would be safest to talk with Lucy late
tonight.

“Here are fresh towels,” Lucy said, bringing them into Vicki’s room,
“and I’ll lend you a housecoat and slippers.”

Vicki seized the moment of privacy.

“Miss Rowe--Lucy--”

“Yes, please call me Lucy.”

“Lucy, do you know of a Mr. Dorn? Thurman Dorn?”

“Why, no, I’ve never heard of him. Should I? Perhaps Mrs. Heath would
know him.”

“Please don’t mention his name to Mrs. Heath,” Vicki said. “Please!
I’ve brought you an extremely important message, but Mrs. Heath mustn’t
know. That’s why I landed the plane here--”

“You what--?” The girl was startled.

“Girls!” Mrs. Heath called. “What’s taking you so long up there?”

“We’ll be down in a minute,” Lucy called back, and looked searchingly
at Vicki. “What message? From whom?”

Vicki hesitated. She did not want to upset Lucy visibly in front of
Mrs. Heath.

“It’s not something I can tell you quickly or--or simply,” Vicki said.
She also would rather obtain proofs of Lucy’s identity before revealing
too much. “Can we talk after Mrs. Heath has gone to bed?”

“I don’t understand why we need to be secretive. Mrs. Heath is my
friend--”

“Lucy, I don’t blame you for wondering about me. But your old friend,
the Reverend Mr. Hall, knows me and in a way he sent me to you.”

“Mr. Hall! How do you know I know Mr. Hall? I don’t understand this at
all!”

“There isn’t anything difficult to understand,” Vicki reassured her.
“I’m looking for a girl named Lucy Rowe, that’s all. Her parents were
Jack and Eleanor Rowe.” Vicki was careful not to mention the Bryant
name--not to give away any leads. “According to the minister, that’s
you, isn’t it?”

“Why are you looking for this girl?”

“For a confidential reason. A happy, wonderful reason.”

Lucy did not or could not believe this.

“But I’ve come to you as a friend,” Vicki said. “Mr. Hall can vouch for
me--and honestly, I’m bringing you the most wonderful news--”

Lucy swallowed hard. “Of course, if _he_ vouches for you--But at least
tell me, who sent you?”

Vicki put her hand on Lucy’s, and touched the silver ring. “Your
grandmother sent me.”

The girl stiffened, distrustful again. “I have no grandmother. I don’t
know what you’re talking about.” She was pale and trying not to cry.

“If you’re not the granddaughter, where did you get your silver ring?”

Lucy took a deep quivering breath. She admitted she was Marshall and
Lucy Bryant’s long-unwanted granddaughter. Vicki noted that Lucy, not
herself, was the first to bring up the Bryant name.

“If you want proof of who I am, Vicki, I have proof. Right here in the
house with me. Letters, photographs, this ring. My mother gave it to me
when I was a child. There are only two rings like these in existence.”

There were _supposed_ to be only two such rings, Vicki thought. She had
seen three rings--one which Mrs. Bryant had taken from her trinket box,
one on the hand of Lucy in New York, one on the hand of the Lucy here
beside her.

One of the two Lucys was an impostor. The Lucy in New York also
possessed letters and documents to prove her identity. Those things
could be forged, a ring could be copied. Which girl was the true Lucy?
Vicki believed her to be this friendly light-brown-haired girl, the
girl of the portrait, the girl whom Mr. Hall, Jill Joseph, the clerk at
the Hotel Alcott had reported to be with Mrs. Heath--the girl whom Mr.
Dorn easily could have traced, if he had wanted to.

Mrs. Heath called again. The girls started downstairs together. Vicki
whispered, “Not a word to Mrs. Heath about this,” and Lucy nodded. She
was still shaken.

The lady announced with some impatience that she was keeping dinner
hot in the warming oven. Would Lucy make the salad and coffee, while
she herself set the table? Lucy hurried into the kitchen. Vicki went
into the kitchen, too, to help. In low voices they arranged to meet at
midnight to talk further. Lucy thought the guest bedroom would be the
safest place. Mrs. Heath would have no reason to enter Vicki’s room,
even if the light were on.

“You two girls,” said Mrs. Heath, coming into the kitchen, “seem to
have a great deal to say to each other.”

Lucy murmured an apology for their delay, and hurried to finish making
the salad. Vicki helped Mrs. Heath bring the food to the dining table,
in an area just off the living room. Then the three of them sat down.

Dinner was rather strained. Vicki’s hostess seemed to expect the
intruder to account for herself. Vicki talked about her flight
stewardess job with Federal Airlines, and her enthusiasm for the
sport of private flying. Lucy listened with interest; Mrs. Heath was
thoughtful.

“About two weeks ago,” the lady said, “a small plane flew back and
forth over our house and meadow. It upset me--it seemed so deliberate.
Was that you, by any chance?”

Vicki did not dare glance at Lucy. “It must have been someone else,
Mrs. Heath. I was quite lost this afternoon, that’s how I got here.”
She disliked telling an untruth, but she was not sure enough of Mrs.
Heath’s friendship for Lucy to reveal anything of importance.

Mrs. Heath talked about her book of memoirs “--though I’m afraid we
haven’t actually done much on it, have we, Lucy? I’m still in the
planning stage.” Then Mrs. Heath mentioned a plan for her and Lucy to
go abroad.

“I don’t really want to go,” Lucy said uncomfortably. “Not very much.”

“It’s only perhaps,” said her employer. Lucy looked down at her plate
and kept still.

Mrs. Heath changed the subject to the countryside around here. They had
many lovely trees and birds to enjoy, without ever leaving their own
grounds. Mrs. Heath remarked that Lucy particularly liked birds. Vicki
started to say something about Mrs. Bryant’s collection of parakeets,
then caught herself just in time.

During the evening Mrs. Heath and Lucy did not work on the book after
all. They chatted with their guest and watched television for a while.
Vicki borrowed a flashlight and went outdoors to make sure that the
plane was safely staked down and the wheels chocked. At nine o’clock
Mrs. Heath announced it was bedtime.

“We’re early birds in the country. Good night, Vicki. Rest well.”

The girls wished her good night and started to go upstairs.

“Lucy!” Mrs. Heath called her back. “Help me lock up down here.”

Was she trying to keep her and Lucy apart? Vicki wondered. Did Mrs.
Heath suspect something? That was hard to tell. In any case, Mrs.
Heath was keeping a close watch. She and Lucy would have to be careful
tonight.

From nine until midnight was a long stretch. Vicki changed into the
borrowed night clothes and put out her light. She heard Lucy go to
bed and, at last, Mrs. Heath. She rested but was afraid to sleep lest
she and Lucy both sleep straight through the night. The house was
absolutely quiet. The night grew chilly.

On the stroke of midnight, by the luminous figures on her wrist watch,
her door opened soundlessly and someone slipped in. Vicki was surprised
at how hard her heart beat. She waited until the figure stepped into
the moonlight, until she saw Lucy’s face, then whispered:

“Wait. I’ll get out of bed.”

“Don’t turn on the light, not yet.”

Both girls perched on the edge of the bed, wrapped in robes and
sweaters. They were able to see each other’s faces clearly in the
moonlight. Lucy said softly that Mrs. Heath was asleep on the other
side of the wall.

“She’s a sound sleeper.”

“I hope so!”

“I don’t see why you mistrust Mrs. Heath, she’s almost like a mother
to me,” Lucy said warmly. “Well, never mind that--I’m dying to know
what my grandparents want! What are they like? Is my grandfather still
awfully stern?”

“In some ways he is,” Vicki said. “But he’s not so formidable, and
Mrs. Bryant is lovely. Both of them want to know their granddaughter
and--well, make up for--” She realized she was saying too much too
soon. “Lucy, first I must have more proof of who you are. Not that I
question your word, but--”

Lucy nodded. “That’s all right. Though I can’t imagine why anyone would
have any doubts at all about knowing I’m Lucy Rowe.”

Vicki kept silent about the other Lucy Rowe in New York, established in
the Bryants’ house. She could discuss that difficult situation later.
Lucy was digging into the pockets of her robe.

“Here, Vicki, I want you to see these.” She handed Vicki a few worn
documents. “I’ll just turn on this little bedside lamp, and tilt the
shade.” She did so. “The letter on top is--well, read it, Vicki.”

Vicki unfolded the letter, so old it was tearing at the creases. The
ink had faded and the note paper was losing its tint. This letter was
authentic, all right. It was addressed “Dearest Eleanor,” and was
signed “Mother.” It proposed a family reconciliation and offered aid
for small Lucy. Vicki glanced up inquiringly. Lucy said:

“Mother never accepted Grandmother’s offer. I guess she never even
answered this letter. We all had such strained feelings about--about my
father. He was a darling. Here’s a snapshot of him.”

Lucy handed Vicki a thin bundle of old snapshots and photographs. One
was of her parents taken at a picnic. One was of Mr. and Mrs. Bryant,
very formal, taken years before. One was a print of the same snapshot
of Lucy as a little girl, seated on the porch steps, which Mrs. Bryant
had shown Vicki earlier. These pictures, too, impressed Vicki as being
authentic, not clever forgeries.

“I’d have more photographs and letters to show you,” Lucy said, “except
that Mrs. Heath insisted on putting them away for safekeeping. She
wanted me to give her _all_ the letters and photographs for her to put
away--she even urged me to let her put away this silver ring.”

“She did!” Vicki exclaimed, then remembered to lower her voice. “Where
did she put your things?”

“They’re locked in her room somewhere, along with her own valuables,
and she keeps her door locked, too. She says it’s safer that way in the
country.”

“Is that really necessary?”

“Well, you see, I do want to please her. So I gave her _most_ of my
letters and photos to put away, but I just have to keep a few things
with me all the time. I’ve done that ever since my parents died, I
suppose it’s awfully sentimental. And of course the silver ring. I
couldn’t bear to part with it, even though Mrs. Heath predicts that
I’ll lose it gardening, or something.”

“I don’t think you’ll lose your ring,” Vicki said dryly. “I think it’s
strange that Mrs. Heath made such a point of putting away your very
personal things.”

“No, it isn’t. She locked away all her own things, too. And she says
any time I want my things, I only need to ask her.”

“We-ell--Ssh! Do I hear her moving around?”

“Oh, my! Sometimes she knocks on my door when she doesn’t feel well--”

Both girls listened. Lucy put out the lamp, and moonlight poured
into the room again. On the other side of the wall Mrs. Heath _was_
stirring. They held their breaths. They heard bedsprings creak, then
quiet. Lucy let out a sigh of relief.

“I guess she just turned over in her sleep.”

Nevertheless, they kept perfectly still for a few minutes, and left the
lamp off. Lucy ventured to speak again, softly, eagerly.

“You still haven’t told me the message from my grandparents, Vicki.”

“I’ve told you most of it, or you’ve guessed it. They want to give
you all the advantages and good things which they feel you, as their
granddaughter, are entitled to.”

Lucy murmured, “That’s wonderful,” then asked what made them change
their minds, after so many years? Vicki explained how Mr. Bryant’s
severe heart attack had made him stop and take moral stock of his life.
She added that Lucy’s grandmother had for a long time grieved about the
family separation.

“Now they want you to come live with them, Lucy, or near them, if you
wish.”

The eagerness drained out of Lucy’s voice. “They don’t really want me.”

“Lucy, they _do_ want you! Very much!”

“But I can’t decently leave Mrs. Heath now. If you had brought me this
news a few weeks ago, it would have been wonderful--it would have
transformed my life! But it’s impossible now. I’ve promised to stay
with her--she needs me.”

“Why did Mrs. Heath talk at dinner about going abroad?” Vicki asked.
“Have you also promised to go out of the country with her?”

“It’s just a vague plan Mrs. Heath has had ever since I met her. I
don’t know exactly what she has in mind.”

Vicki asked whether they would go soon.

“I suppose it might be soon. Mrs. Heath does things on the spur of the
moment.”

Vicki found this a troubling prospect. If Lucy went abroad and stayed a
long time, she might never be reunited with her grandparents. Even if
she remained abroad a short time the separation was risky; the Bryants
were elderly people, Mr. Bryant had a heart ailment. However, on this
point Lucy was stubborn. Vicki saw that she felt really committed to
her job with Mrs. Heath.

“Lucy, do you ever,” Vicki said tentatively, “wonder about your
employer? Don’t you ever have any doubts about her and her plans?”

“How did you guess that?” Lucy exclaimed. Then she seemed confused. “I
shouldn’t really have said that. Mrs. Heath is kind to me, and this is
a pleasant job. But to tell you the truth, some things _do_ strike me
as strange. Especially now that I have a chance to talk about it--I
mean, now that you make me think about it.”

“What things?”

Lucy gave a sigh of relief. “All right, I’ll tell you, though maybe I’m
being disloyal.”

Ever since they had come to Pine Top, Lucy said, Mrs. Heath had not
actually written anything, though the book was their reason for being
here. Mrs. Heath had not given Lucy any dictation beyond a few letters,
mail orders, to San Francisco stores. As for the mail, what there was
of it, Mrs. Heath handled it herself and never let Lucy touch outgoing
or incoming letters.

“But surely you could mail a letter if you wanted to,” Vicki said.
“When you go down to Pine Top or drive into the nearest sizable town.”

“But we haven’t left these premises since we first got here,” Lucy
said. “We’ve stayed right here for--let’s see--a month now.”

“What! Why, for goodness’ sake?”

“Oh, Mrs. Heath says she’s thinking out her book, she’s concentrating
and doesn’t want to be distracted. Besides, she hasn’t been feeling
very well.”

“But _you_ could leave this place for a few hours, surely, just for a
change of scene,” Vicki said.

“Mrs. Heath wants me with her. We’re busy enough. We keep house and
cook--we brought a big supply of food in the car, and Mrs. Heath phones
Mr. Potter when we need more. She tells him to leave it at the wall
door, and she leaves payment for him in our mailbox. Mrs. Heath doesn’t
like being bothered with deliveries. And, well, there’s the garden to
take care of, we read, we chat. It sounds pretty dull, doesn’t it?”
Lucy said uncertainly. She seemed to be reconsidering their routine.
“Mrs. Heath has kept me busy doing some rather pointless research for
her.”

“Hmm.” It was extraordinary, Vicki thought, that for a month Lucy had
not seen nor talked with anyone except Mrs. Heath. “Don’t you get
restless or lonesome?”

“Yes, I do! I wanted to call up a couple of my friends in San
Francisco, but Mrs. Heath discouraged me from doing so. She won’t
even let me answer the telephone, though it seldom rings. It’s in her
bedroom, and she keeps her bedroom door locked.”

“But why locked?”

“Because of the valuables she keeps in there, she says.” Again Lucy
seemed to reconsider. “It _is_ odd, isn’t it?”

“Lucy, I want to say something which I hope won’t offend you. I know
that you’re fond of Mrs. Heath--you’ve mistakenly made her almost a
substitute for your own mother. Well, like her or not, it sounds to me
as if Mrs. Heath is keeping you a prisoner here.”

Lucy remained silent and motionless. The moonlight had shifted, the
room was darker now, so that Vicki could not read her expression. At
last Lucy said:

“That’s a harsh thing for you to say. But--but I’ve once or twice
thought the same thing. A prisoner.”

“You _could_ leave, you know.”

“It’s not so simple, Vicki. I haven’t any money.”

Mrs. Heath did not pay her a salary on a weekly basis. That would not
make much sense here in these hills. She promised to pay Lucy’s salary
in a lump sum later on. Mrs. Heath had given her a sum in advance, when
Lucy first took the job with her. But the girl had spent it on clothes
and paid some old bills. “And Mrs. Heath persuaded me to bank what was
left.”

“You could leave if you wanted to,” Vicki pointed out. “Even without
money. There are always people who’ll help you, and organizations
who’ll help, if you seriously need help in an emergency.”

“Well, I don’t feel I have the right to leave. I promised to stay with
her for a certain length of time. It’s more than a business obligation,
Vicki. She cares more for me than my grandparents ever did. And Mrs.
Heath needs me. She depends on me.”

But Vicki had seen that Mrs. Heath was neither ill nor dependent. In
fact, she was a vigorous woman with a decided will. True, the employer
had to be considered, but Lucy needed to consider her own welfare, as
well. Vicki suspected Mrs. Heath of playing upon Lucy’s sympathies, and
her lonesomeness for her family.

“Lucy, how did you happen to strike up such a close acquaintance with
Mrs. Heath in the first place?”

“Well, it was rather sudden,” Lucy admitted. At the women’s hotel,
Lucy said, the residents easily became acquainted in the lobby, in
the dining room, in the television lounge. She and Mrs. Heath had
liked each other from the start. She felt complimented when Mrs. Heath
decided almost at once that Lucy was exactly the girl she had been
looking for, to be her secretary-companion. In offering the job, Mrs.
Heath showed Lucy unassailable credentials and identification.

“She comes from Chicago,” Lucy said. “I think she has friends in New
York, too. I overheard her phoning once when she had given me an
all-morning gardening chore. I ran out of seeds and then the spade
handle broke and I came up to her room to tell her about it, only her
door was locked. I heard her, though. She was having trouble getting
her number. She was trying very especially to reach someone in New
York. I guess you think I’m awful to be an eavesdropper, Vicki.”

“Not at all, under these strange circumstances. What did you hear?”

“Well, it was a person-to-person call, but I don’t know _whom_ she was
calling. All I heard was the New York telephone number. I guess it’s
a business place, because she kept asking for an extension number. I
remember the number because it’s an easy one and it’s like one I called
a lot when I was a secretary at Interstate Insurance. It’s--”

“Wait.” Vicki turned on the bedside lamp, took a slip of paper from her
purse, and wrote down the New York number. It was not familiar to her.

“I’m going to keep this number, Lucy.”

“What are you going to do with it?”

“I don’t know at the moment. Don’t worry. I won’t do anything to
embarrass you or get you in trouble. I think you’re already in trouble,
being here in this isolated house almost as a prisoner. Why, Lucy,
you’re being held here incommunicado! Don’t you realize that?”

“But I--Mrs. Heath is so nice to me.”

“Nice! Yes, on the surface, in little things. You’re letting your
sympathies blind you to the facts. I’m a great deal more suspicious of
this woman and these living arrangements than you are. Listen to me,
Lucy! I think you’d better get out of here. Fast. This is an unhealthy
situation for you. I wish you’d fly out of here with me tomorrow
morning.”

Lucy hesitated. “It’s so sudden. I need time to think, though what
you’re saying is true--I need to think about my grandparents, too. I
hardly know how I feel about them.”

She was leaving the question open. Vicki was dissatisfied with that.
Once she herself had left this hidden house, she might not be able
to gain entrance and see Lucy again, and she would not be able to
communicate with Lucy by telephone or letter. This was their only
chance, tonight, to set up some arrangement to help Lucy leave. To
escape, actually--because Mrs. Heath would not want to let the girl go.

Vicki thought hard. If she came back here to get Lucy, she’d better not
use a plane and alert Mrs. Heath a second time. She’d better use a car,
which she could rent, and which she could park out of sight and sound
down the road from the house. Lucy could meet her there. They’d need a
signal for the day and hour. If only she could use the telephone! Well,
she could, in a way.

“Lucy, do you know the telephone number in this house?”

“Yes, I got it from the telephone company man when he hooked up the
phone here for us. It’s--” Vicki wrote it down.

“Lucy, I’m going to come back here secretly and get you. I’ll be
waiting in a car at the first sharp curve at the top of the road. It
will be noon. All you’ll have to do is slip away and run down the road.
Don’t take any luggage with you, not even a coat or purse, nothing to
arouse Mrs. Heath’s suspicion. Do you understand?”

“Yes, but--You’re really going to do all this for me? You honestly
think I’m not safe here?”

“Lucy, pay attention! I’ll be waiting at noon.”

“What day?” The girl sounded frightened.

“I don’t know the day yet, but on that morning I’ll send you a signal
by telephone. I know you can’t receive a phone call, but here’s a way.
The telephone will ring, Mrs. Heath will answer it, and I’ll say--”

Vicki stopped. No, she would be driving from San Francisco to Pine Top
that morning. Someone else would have to make that call. The minister?
Yes, she could rely on Mr. Hall to do it. Vicki resumed:

“Mr. Hall, not I, will telephone on that morning. Early, before his
church service, if it’s a Sunday. Mrs. Heath will answer and he’ll say
it’s the telephone company making a test call, and hang up. Then he’ll
call again, right away. You’ll hear the phone ring a second time, but
when Mrs. Heath answers, he’ll hang up without speaking. As if it were
an error.”

“And Mrs. Heath will be annoyed enough to mention the two phone calls
to me. I’ll be listening every morning for the phone to ring. To ring
twice.”

“Good girl.” Vicki sighed. “I’d much rather you’d fly out of here with
me in the morning. It would be surer and safer.”

“I--I can’t.”

“Well, the morning you hear the telephone signal, you’re to meet me at
noon. Promise, Lucy?”

The girl took a deep breath. “Promise. But I’m scared.”

“I’ll come back as soon as I can.”

They whispered good night and Lucy crept back to her room.




CHAPTER X

_The Signal_


Vicki’s departure the next morning did not go well. For one thing,
Mrs. Heath was suspicious when Vicki “repaired” the plane engine. “So
easily?” she said--and Vicki wondered how much the woman guessed. For
another thing, Lucy was fearful again this morning when Vicki hinted,
“It’s such a fine, clear day. Just come for a little flight, Lucy.” One
look at Lucy’s face showed she longed to leave.

Mrs. Heath said quickly to Lucy, “I’m not feeling well again this
morning. Please don’t leave me alone.”

Lucy looked at the older woman almost guiltily. “Maybe someday I’ll
take a ride with you, Vicki,” was the most the girl would say.

Her employer sighed. “You girls probably think me very strict, but I’d
like to remind you that I’m half ill, I have important work to do. You
know very well, my dear,” she said to Lucy, “that I need you.”

The woman played on the girl’s pity, and Vicki saw that Lucy had not
the heart to walk out openly. Also, as Lucy herself had pleaded last
night, she obviously needed more time to think. There was nothing now
Vicki could do except thank them both and climb into the plane.

Just before she slammed the door, Vicki called:

“I should be back in the San Francisco area by noon. Noon.”

Lucy nodded. She and Mrs. Heath walked a safe distance away from the
plane, waving to her. In minutes Vicki took off.

From the air, the hidden house quickly sank out of sight. Oddly enough,
she reached Novato Airport, outside San Francisco, precisely at noon.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who was Mrs. Heath? This was what Vicki wanted to learn now. Who was
this woman who had coincidentally appeared at the Hotel Alcott and out
of the blue offered Lucy a job? Why was she detaining Lucy?

And who was the “Lucy Rowe” in New York? The girl who had flown
into New York on Vicki’s plane, yet had not _then_ worn the silver
ring? Suddenly Vicki remembered an incident of that flight with its
near-emergency landing--the lost gold charm inscribed Dorothy! It had
fallen off someone’s bracelet or out of someone’s purse or pocket. Yet
when the stewardess tried to return the valuable trinket, no one had
claimed it. Why not? Did Dorothy not wish to identify herself?

Suppose, Vicki thought in a flash of insight, that the alleged Miss
L. Rowe on that flight was actually Miss Dorothy “Somebody.” In that
case she wouldn’t dare claim the inscribed charm--it would publicly
reveal her to be an impostor. And by now Vicki was convinced that the
dark-haired “Lucy” at the Bryants’ house was in fact an impostor.

“Or am I only guessing about the charm?” Well, she could think of ways
to find out when she was again in New York. This afternoon she had
other points to check.

That telephone number in New York which Lucy said Mrs. Heath had
called--apparently a business place--who was at the other end? Vicki
tried a bold plan. She asked on her hotel phone for that New York
number herself.

She heard the connection go through, heard the San Francisco operator
say, “San Francisco calling,” and give the New York operator the
number, then a telephone ringing three thousand miles away--ringing as
clearly as if it were next door. A crisp, businesslike voice answered.
“Two-three-four-five. Good afternoon.”

Vicki was disappointed. She had hoped that whoever answered would say
the firm name--if there were a firm name in this case.

“Hello?” said the voice in her ear.

“Hello,” Vicki replied, and swallowed nervously. “This is Mrs. Heath
calling.” There, the step was taken!

[Illustration: _The hidden house quickly sank out of sight_]

“Oh, yes, Mrs. Heath. One moment, please, and I’ll ring Mr. Dorn.”

Mr. Dorn! He and Mrs. Heath were linked! She’d never suspected
it--Thurman Dorn’s voice came on.

“Hello, Mother,” he said.

Vicki nearly dropped the telephone. She was careful not to answer, not
to make a sound.

“Mother? Is anything wrong? Whatever are you doing in San Francisco?” A
pause. “Hello? Mother? Hello!”

Vicki held her breath. She hoped Dorn would think something had gone
wrong with their telephone connection. He repeated his hellos, then
buzzed his receptionist, and demanded, “What’s happened to my San
Francisco call, Sally?”

“You’re still connected, Mr. Dorn.”

Now his voice sounded angry. “Mother? Is that you? Hello?”

Dorn hung up, and Vicki hung up, too. Whew! Her heart was banging away
over the discovery.

In the next instant Vicki realized that by pretending to be Mrs. Heath,
she had put herself in a dangerous position. Even more, she had put
Lucy in danger! For Thurman Dorn could easily check by calling Mrs.
Heath. Then, when she informed him that Vicki Barr had flown in as an
uninvited guest at the hidden house, and that Lucy had half wanted to
leave with her, Dorn would know Vicki Barr was on their trail. And Lucy
might really disappear.

“Oh, what have I done!” Vicki groaned.

But it _was_ done now, and no use fretting about it. She had gained an
immensely valuable piece of information, but at a high price. She had
known all along that the search for Lucy was risky. One thing stood out
urgently--now that she had probably aroused Dorn’s suspicions, she must
get Lucy out of that hidden house and away from Mrs. Heath as soon as
possible. Tomorrow, or next day at the latest. Time was of the essence.
She and Lucy would need time, too, to reach the Bryants and some
degree of safety. But she was scheduled for a Federal flight day after
tomorrow, Sunday. Time!

Vicki at once telephoned the Federal Airlines office at San Francisco’s
International Airport, and asked for her Flight Stewardess Supervisor.
But Miss Middleton was in a conference which would last the rest of
the afternoon, and no one else was authorized to change Vicki’s flight
schedule.

“Please tell Miss Middleton,” Vicki said into the phone, “I’ll come in
to see her tomorrow, at eight in the morning.” A day lost, and no help
for it. A day for Dorn to use--

Mother and son! Mr. Dorn, the lawyer assigned to find Lucy, and Mrs.
Heath, the employer who took Lucy away with her to the hills--they were
in collusion!

“The next thing is to prove it,” Vicki realized. “Mr. and Mrs. Bryant
are so delighted with their bogus granddaughter that they might never
accept the true Lucy without proof.”

Proof. Facts, which were matters of record. She remembered that Dorn
stayed at the St. Clair Hotel from January twelfth to twenty-first,
and on February twenty-first, during his first and second visits to
“search” for Lucy. Vicki called up the hotel, asked for the man who had
advised her before, and inquired:

“Can you tell me, please, whether a Mrs. Elizabeth Heath was at the St.
Clair Hotel around the middle of January? And again in February, around
Washington’s Birthday?”

She waited, then was told:

“Yes, Mrs. Heath registered here last January twelfth and stayed two
days.”

“Did she leave a forwarding address?”

“Yes, Mrs. Heath moved from here to the Hotel Alcott.”

“Was she accompanied by a Mr. Thurman Dorn when she checked in?”

“We have no record of that.... You’re welcome, Miss Barr.”

They’d arrived together in San Francisco, and had been discreet enough
to register separately. Mr. Dorn must have gained some information
quickly about Lucy. For two days later Mrs. Heath had moved into the
Hotel Alcott where Lucy had just moved in, too. And Mrs. Heath had lost
no time in striking up an acquaintance with Lucy, offered her a job,
lured her away from San Francisco where anyone could find her, hid her
out in the hills. The next move, Vicki saw plainly, was to lure Lucy
into going abroad. A very smooth way to make Lucy disappear, so that
they could put their own confederate into the Bryants’ house to inherit
the Bryant fortune!

And Mr. Dorn? While his mother was busy getting Lucy out of the way,
what had he been doing? Finding a suitable hide-out house, arranging to
rent a car? So Mr. Dorn’s “report” to the Bryants that Lucy was on a
trip, was traveling with friends, was a prearranged lie! The same lies
as the glib ones the false Lucy told.

“Never mind reconstructing the details of their scheme,” Vicki told
herself. “I haven’t time now. The urgent thing is to go get Lucy.”

She glanced out the window. It was dusk. She could not do much more
today beyond setting up the signal.

By telephone she reached the minister’s residence but only the
secretary was in. Another conference and delay! Vicki made an
appointment to see Mr. Hall, or at least talk with him on the
telephone, early the next morning after she’d seen her supervisor. She
would know by then how much time she had to rescue Lucy.

She made one further telephone call, to a car rental agency. On a
gamble, she reserved a car for either tomorrow or Sunday morning,
depending on what free time Federal Airlines allowed her. It was about
a three-hour drive to Pine Top--if she made an early enough start and
drove fast, she could keep the noon rendezvous.

Vicki sat down to think over Lucy’s dangerous situation--and her own.
She wanted very much to report what she had found to the police,
and leave the responsibility for rescuing the girl to them. But she
recalled Lucy’s fear that her grandparents did not really want her.
Bringing Lucy to them via the police might turn her grandparents
against her.

Vicki sighed. “I’d better get Lucy out of that hidden house before Mrs.
Heath and Mr. Dorn think up any new plans for her.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Early the next day, Saturday morning, rain poured down. An all-day
March rain, from the Weather Bureau prediction. In the hotel room
Vicki turned the radio on and heard that small aircraft were ordered
grounded, most big commercial airliners continued to fly on schedule,
and for drivers road conditions were fair.

“Fair is good enough to drive to Pine Top,” Vicki decided. “Providing
I can get there by noon--first, providing I can get extra time off to
allow for any delays or unexpected developments.” For she might not get
back from Pine Top today--she might miss her scheduled nine A.M. flight
tomorrow.

She bundled up and went to take the bus out to International Airport.
San Francisco was wrapped in fog; it made halos of street lamps and
shadows of people. Vicki barely found the bus which appeared to be
floating. It crawled at a maddeningly slow pace the thirteen miles out
to International Airport.

“I’ll never be able to reach Pine Top by noon,” Vicki mourned. “Not in
this fog. Why, just going to the car rental place and then driving out
of San Francisco could take an hour.” She’d have to go tomorrow--unless
tomorrow she found herself in uniform aboard the Electra.

In the fog she groped her way to the Federal Airlines building, using
the Hangar One entrance. It was a quarter to eight. Miss Middleton
was already in her office. For the first time in her career as a
stewardess, Vicki asked to be excused from making a scheduled flight.
Miss Middleton, on learning that Vicki had urgent personal business,
granted her a leave of absence of three days, to be made up later.

“Provided,” said the supervisor, “I can find a stewardess to take your
place. I’ll phone you at your hotel some time after noon today.”

That settled it. No trip to Pine Top today.

Vicki went to one of the telephone booths in the corridor. She called
the car rental agency and said she would want a car tomorrow, not
today. Then, though it was early to disturb him, Vicki called the
minister. He was at breakfast, and very glad and relieved to hear from
her.

“Have you found Lucy, Miss Vicki?”

“Yes, I have.”

“Good, good! Where is she?”

“At a place called Pine Top, and it isn’t good at all, Mr. Hall. I’m
going to get her out of there--tomorrow, I _hope_--But, in order to
rescue Lucy, I’ll need your help here in San Francisco.”

“Anything you say, Miss Vicki. Your tone of voice alarms me. Do you
want to come to see me and talk it over?”

They discussed meeting. But since Vicki had to be back at her hotel
by noon, they decided they might as well talk fully on the telephone.
Vicki dropped more coins into the telephone box at the operator’s
request.

“Well, Mr. Hall, Lucy is in serious trouble.” Vicki described the
situation with Mrs. Heath.

“I don’t understand why this Mrs. Heath wants to detain the girl,” said
the minister. “It _is_ detention. But why? Can you tell me why?”

His voice sounded so concerned that Vicki could almost see the
minister’s face, his quiet expression and perceptive eyes. Why should
she not confide in him? He was Lucy’s good and old friend.

“Yes, I’ll tell you why, Mr. Hall,” Vicki said into the telephone.
“It’s a long story, it goes back to Lucy’s grandparents--”

“Her grandparents! Her only surviving grandparents are the Marshall
Bryants, in New York.”

“Yes. They want Lucy at last, you see. But a terrible thing has
happened because of the inheritance.” Vicki told the minister the whole
story of the Bryants, Thurman Dorn, and the false Lucy. Then she told
him of her own search which had led her to Lucy and Mrs. Heath and the
truth.

“I am appalled,” the minister said, after she had finished. “Why not go
to the police at once?”

“Because it could ruin Lucy’s first meeting with her grandparents.”
Vicki explained Lucy’s nervousness about meeting the Bryants, after
years of being ostracized. She mentioned their abhorrence of publicity.

“Yes, I see,” the minister said reluctantly. “What alternative is
there? What do you plan to do, Miss Vicki?”

She told him of her plan to return to Pine Top. She told Mr. Hall of
the telephone signal Lucy was listening for, and described exactly what
he must do, and gave him the telephone number of the hidden house.

“I’ll call you tomorrow, Mr. Hall, just before I start out by car for
Pine Top. It’s a three-hour drive, so I’ll call you early. You’re to
signal by telephone at, say, nine A.M. That will give Lucy three hours’
notice.”

“Of course I’ll do it. But, Miss Vicki! Isn’t it dangerous for you, and
for Lucy, too, to attempt this escape?”

She replied that Mrs. Heath might not be watching Lucy so closely in
broad daylight. On the big grounds of the Glidden place, among its many
trees and bushes, Lucy with her outdoors chores could quite naturally
“wander” out of sight.

“If the plan doesn’t work”--Vicki caught her breath at the chance--“if
anything goes wrong, Mr. Hall, then you’d better call the police.”

“How will I know your plan hasn’t succeeded?”

“When I drive back to San Francisco bringing Lucy, I’ll call you. That
should be about three or three thirty. Four, at the latest. I’ll call
you then. Or if there’s trouble at any point, I’ll try to phone you.”

“And if I don’t hear from you by four tomorrow I’m to call the police?”

“Yes, Mr. Hall. Thank you very, very much.”

“I don’t like it,” he said. “It’s dangerous--”

“I don’t like it much myself. But it’s the best we can do.”

They left it at that, and said good-by until the next day. Vicki felt
grateful that she had someone like Mr. Hall to rely on.

In the fog Vicki found the airport’s bus stop. She rode back slowly
over blurred roads and bridges. When she got off the bus in downtown
San Francisco, the pavement seemed bottomless under her feet. She
reached her hotel, glad to be indoors where there were lights. Though
it was nowhere near noon, Vicki settled down in her room to wait for
the Flight Supervisor’s call.

Waiting, the day seemed the longest of her life. Vicki did everything
she could think of to pass the time. She read, she sewed a little, sent
down for a sandwich, visited with a stewardess next door, read some
more. At four o’clock the telephone rang. It was the Flight Stewardess
Supervisor to notify Vicki that her request for extra time off was
granted.

Vicki went downstairs to the lobby about five o’clock. The stewardesses
of several airlines who stayed at this hotel had a favorite corner,
where they looked for one another and exchanged flying news. This
afternoon two girls in Trans-USA’s gray uniform were sitting there,
having hot tea. Vicki knew them slightly; they were Peggy Bennett and
Nancy Notaro.

“Hello, you look as if you’ve just come in from a flight,” Vicki
greeted them.

“And such a flight! Grueling,” said Peggy. “Come sit down,
Vicki.” She said they had flown by jet nonstop from New York, a
five-and-a-half-hour run, starting at one thirty New York time that
afternoon.

“The most demanding passengers you ever saw,” Nancy said, as Vicki
joined them. “I admit that they were interesting people. But one young
man nearly drove Peg and me out of our minds. A lawyer, I think.”

“He was awfully anxious to get here,” Peggy said to excuse him. “Our
Boeing 707 didn’t go fast enough to suit Mr. Dorn.”

Vicki froze. “Did you say Dorn? Do you remember his first name?”

“I think it was Thurman,” said Nancy. “Why, Vicki, what’s the matter?
Aren’t you feeling well?”

“N-no, I’m not. Was anyone traveling with Mr. Dorn?”

“He was alone. Vicki, you’ve turned white! Here, have some of this
tea--”

“I think I’d better go to my room,” Vicki said, and excused herself.

Upstairs in her room she did some rapid figuring. Yesterday afternoon
she had guardedly telephoned Dorn’s office in New York, giving her name
as Mrs. Heath and then keeping silent. Today Dorn had taken the fastest
plane he could board to San Francisco. His action could mean only one
thing:

His suspicions were aroused by her telephone call. He probably
telephoned his mother right back, learned _she_ had not just called
him--and learned about Vicki Barr’s surprise visit to the hidden house
the night before. Mrs. Heath would have told him how Vicki Barr struck
up a sympathetic acquaintance with Lucy. The woman had been disturbed
about that; Dorn would be disturbed, too. Further, Mrs. Heath had
probably told him that Vicki Barr had flown back to San Francisco
earlier on the day of the faked telephone call.

So Dorn knew now that Vicki Barr was checking up on him and Mrs. Heath.
He was certain enough of it to take the first plane to San Francisco,
to come here and circumvent her. This was what Vicki had feared, and it
had come true.

“What will Dorn do next?” Vicki wondered. “Steady, now. I mustn’t
panic. Well, he’ll go to Pine Top, and take Mrs. Heath and Lucy out of
there. Take them some place where I can’t find them again. This time
Lucy will really disappear. And then Thurman Dorn will deal with me.”

She shivered. “_Stop it_,” she scolded herself. “I must try to think
clearly.”

How soon, how fast, could Dorn reach Pine Top? The city was still
wrapped in fog; so were its outlying highways, the radio reported. That
meant Dorn could not fly or drive to Pine Top today, not with night
closing in. He’d probably start out for Pine Top first thing tomorrow
morning, weather permitting--just as she herself planned to do.

“Suppose I encounter Dorn on the highway while I’m driving to Pine
Top?” She would have to disguise herself a little, and drive a closed
car. “Or suppose he goes to Pine Top in a private plane--he’d arrive
before I do. Will that ruin Lucy’s getaway, our getaway?”

At least she had one small advantage. She already had a car reserved.
Dorn would encounter some delay in renting a car, or renting a private
plane and the services of a pilot, since these were much in demand and
often sold out in advance. Probably he would be able to hunt around and
rent _something_, but it would take him extra time. Time!

When she went to bed, Vicki noticed that the fog had turned into a
driving rain.

She rose very early Sunday morning. It was still raining hard. The
radio predicted an all-day downpour and reported that roads were washed
out in several localities. Motorists were advised to cancel their plans
and stay off the highways.

“Oh, how awful!” Vicki thought. “Another day lost! Well, I’ll go to
Pine Top tomorrow--I hope.”

She immediately made two telephone calls. One was to Mr. Hall, asking
him to call Pine Top tomorrow instead of today. The other was to the
car rental agency, changing her reservation to the next day. Then Vicki
ventured out in the rain to attend church. She lived through the rest
of that Sunday somehow.

Monday morning she again was up early. The weather was clear. She
dressed quietly, without waking Jean Cox, tied a scarf over her head to
conceal her light hair, and took along a bulky coat and dark glasses.
These things were to make her less recognizable in case she met Dorn
anywhere along the way. She took a scarf, sunglasses, and sweater
for Lucy. Although she was too worried to feel hungry, she fortified
herself with breakfast at one of the few restaurants open that early.
Here she purchased sandwiches, and had the thermos bottle she had
brought along filled with coffee. Now she and Lucy need not stop for
lunch, lose precious time, make themselves visible in case Dorn was out
looking for them.

That is, _if_ she herself could reach the appointed place in the
road without mishap, _if_ Lucy could keep the rendezvous, _if_ they
actually could make their getaway.

Before she reached the car rental agency, Vicki put on the coat and
dark glasses.

A sedan was driven out for her, with its gas tank filled to capacity.
Vicki signed the necessary papers, paid a deposit, and then went to a
telephone booth. She called the minister.

“I’m leaving now, Mr. Hall. Getting an early start. You’ll
phone--signal--around nine?”

“Yes, at nine. I’ll be listening for your telephone call this afternoon
to learn that you and Lucy are safe. Good luck, Miss Vicki.”

“Thanks, Mr. Hall. I’ll need it.”

Out on the highway traffic was light, and she made good time. Vicki
kept watch in the rear-vision mirror to see if any car was following
her, but so far, so good. Of course Dorn could be heading for Pine Top
on any of several alternate roads.

The drive seemed a long one. It helped that she had twice flown over
this Mother Lode country; the small towns and rivers were familiar
landmarks and guides. But the car was slow compared to a plane,
particularly when the land grew rolling and then hilly.

At twenty minutes before noon she was driving through Pine Top, and
there still was no sign of a car or a private plane coming in from the
same direction as she was. Vicki headed the car up the steep, winding
hill which led to the hidden house.

She drove to the first sharp curve at the top of the road, found an
area of trees a little off the road to provide some concealment for the
car, and backed into it. Vicki turned off the ignition and waited. The
birds were singing. The sun shone down on the empty road.

“What if Lucy doesn’t come?” Vicki thought. “What if she loses her
nerve and doesn’t try? Or tries but can’t get out? The wooden door in
the wall is kept locked--but surely somewhere she could find a place to
climb over the wall.”

The minutes dragged.

“Or suppose she and Mrs. Heath have already left? Mrs. Heath had a
rented car. Dorn could have phoned them to leave at once.” If only she
could go close enough to the house to see and hear what was going on!
Was Dorn there? Was Mrs. Heath keeping an extra close watch on Lucy?

Vicki got out of the car to stretch her legs. She wanted badly to
venture around the bend in the road to see whether Lucy was coming--it
was a minute or two until noon. But she stayed in the little enclosure
of trees, half out of sight.

She heard a car coming up the hill. Vicki stepped behind her own
car just as a black sedan whizzed by--the man driving was its only
occupant. He had red hair. Thank goodness it wasn’t Dorn.

Suddenly a figure came running around the bend, hair flying. It was
Lucy!

“Here I am!” Vicki hissed.

“Hurry! Where’s the car?” Lucy gasped. “Get in!”

They got in, slammed the doors, Vicki turned on the ignition, and tore
out of her hiding place. They streaked down the steep road.

“Are you all right, Lucy? Is anyone else at the house?”

“No. A man is coming this morning--driving--he phoned Saturday night
and Sunday morning. Mrs. Heath had me pack our suitcases this morning.
Hurry, Vicki! Mrs. Heath is probably looking for me by now, and she has
a car!”

They sped through Pine Top and onto the open highway. Vicki saw a car
coming--any car coming might be Dorn. She kept on going, at the top
speed allowed.

“Lucy, there’s a scarf and sunglasses on the seat. Put them on, cover
up your face and hair all you can. How’d you get out?”

“I pretended to be gardening near the wall, climbed a tree, dropped
onto the top of the wall, and scrambled down on the outside.” Lucy gave
a shaky laugh. “I tore my stockings. I must be a sight. I didn’t bring
even a purse or sweater or anything with me. Nothing except my family
documents in the pocket of my dress.”

“That’s all that matters.” The silver ring was on Lucy’s hand.

“Mr. Hall phoned twice, around nine,” Lucy said. “Mrs. Heath got
awfully annoyed at the ‘telephone company testing.’ She complained to
me--but I’d heard the phone signal, anyway.” Lucy let out a long sigh
of relief. “Where are we going?”

“Back to San Francisco. To catch a plane to New York.”

“Think we’ll make it to San Francisco safely?”

“We have a fast car, a good chance. Sit back and try to relax, Lucy.”

They rode for many miles in silence. Both girls were tense. After a
while Vicki asked Lucy to open up the sandwiches and coffee. They had a
hard time swallowing any food, and lapsed into silence again. Then Lucy
said:

“If and when we get to New York, do you plan to take me to my
grandparents?”

“Yes, we’ll go directly to the Bryants’.”

Lucy seemed fearful.

Vicki reproved her. “Besides, unless you want to go to the police, it’s
the only place where either of us will be safe.”

Vicki omitted saying: “Provided we can reach the Bryants before Dorn
does.” She did not want to frighten Lucy further. And Lucy was already
nervous enough about facing her grandparents.




CHAPTER XI

_Escape_


At a gas station Vicki slowed down, looking around cautiously for any
car which might be Dorn’s before she stopped. No sign of Dorn--yet.
Vicki bought gas and did not linger. Out on the highway she picked up
speed and said to Lucy:

“Now, listen to me. Mrs. Heath and her son are trying to keep you away
from the Bryants and your rightful inheritance. They want the Bryant
wealth for themselves.”

“But how could they? I don’t understand--who is Mrs. Heath’s son?”

“He’s Dorn, a lawyer your grandparents hired to find you--that was
when Mrs. Heath was luring you out to the hills. Then when you were
practically a prisoner, Dorn brought a girl he said was Lucy Rowe to
your grandparents--”

“But I’m Lucy Rowe!”

“--and they’ve accepted her on his word and ‘evidence’ and because
of the silver ring she wears.” Lucy gasped. “Their next step is to
persuade you to go abroad and stay there. Now, this other girl, who’s
in collusion with Dorn and Mrs. Heath, is living in your grandparents’
house and pretending to be you.”

Lucy burst into tears. “That’s terrible. Are you sure, Vicki? How do
you know?”

“I met the girl at the Bryants’ house, that’s how I know. And I only
hope,” Vicki said tensely, “that Dorn and Mrs. Heath don’t stop us from
ever reaching New York.”

Lucy said, crying, “Even so, please let’s not go to the police. Not
even to report them. I don’t want my grandparents to hear about me
first from the police. I want to meet them in a--a happy way--”

“You shall. Don’t cry any more, Lucy. Don’t look so afraid. I think
Dorn and Mrs. Heath’s main intent now is to reach the Bryants first
with their story, before you and I do. They probably won’t waste time
trying to stop us.” Vicki did not entirely believe this, but Lucy could
not stand much more strain.

They were approaching the outskirts of San Francisco. Vicki stopped at
a public telephone booth and called the minister. It was a little past
three o’clock in the afternoon.

“Miss Vicki!” he said. “What a relief to hear from you! Are you all
right? Is Lucy with you?”

“Yes, Mr. Hall. Here she is.” Vicki handed Lucy the receiver,
whispering, “Be quick.” She moved away, but heard Lucy say:

“Oh, Mr. Hall, if only I’d listened to you!”

Lucy talked to him for a minute or two, then gave the phone back to
Vicki.

“I’m going to try to get us on a plane to New York this afternoon,”
Vicki said to him. “I think Federal Airlines will find room aboard for
us. Please don’t worry, Mr. Hall. Thank you for everything. We’ll keep
in touch with you.”

Vicki next called Federal’s reservations desk. As one of their
stewardesses, she could fly free on vacation and, in addition, she
could get a pass when she had the mileage coming to her. Luckily
she had it now. Vicki pleaded for a seat for herself and one for
her friend, Lucy Rowe. Since Vicki insisted this was an emergency,
Reservations agreed to accept her check for Lucy’s fare and told her
to go out to International Airport and wait. If, at the last minute, a
flight had two seats still unpurchased or had two cancellations, she
and Lucy were welcome to them.

First they returned the rented car, then traveled by taxi to the
airport. In the rotunda Vicki and Lucy made themselves as inconspicuous
as they could around a corner--Dorn and Mrs. Heath might walk through
the terminal at any time! The two girls waited out one flight after
another. Passenger traffic was heavy; not a single Federal flight had
space for them.

Vicki began to worry, and to grow tired and hungry. Lucy was drooping.
Vicki went again and again to the reservations desk, reminding them,
begging for seats. The evening wore on. By now, Dorn and Mrs. Heath had
had ample time to drive from Pine Top to San Francisco and, as they
themselves were doing, try to get space on a flight. Who was going to
win this grim race? Finally, at ten thirty Reservations cleared Vicki
and Lucy to go aboard a Federal DC-7 air coach. It wasn’t as fast a
plane as the Electra, but at least it flew a direct transcontinental
route. They would have to change planes at Chicago.

The two stewardesses were acquaintances of Vicki’s, and they were
surprised to see her come aboard. Noticing how tired she and Lucy were,
they brought them sandwiches and hot coffee once they were aloft, and
then blankets. The two girls were too exhausted to say or think another
single thing. They fell asleep and slept through the quiet night flight.

Next thing Vicki knew, a stewardess was shaking her. “Wake up, Vic.
We’re coming in at Chicago in five minutes.”

Vicki awakened Lucy. It was half dark and cold as they left the plane,
two bedraggled figures, and boarded another plane. Take-off time was
seven A.M. The girls slept again. At ten thirty A.M., New York time,
they landed at Idlewild Airport. A Federal crew car gave them a ride
into Manhattan. Vicki asked to be let off at the apartment she shared
with several other stewardess friends. It was just as well that no one
but their housekeeper, Mrs. Duff, was at home.




CHAPTER XII

_The Silver Rings_


“I can’t meet my grandparents for the first time looking like this,”
Lucy said. “I know it’s important for us to get to them before Mr. Dorn
does, but it’s important for me to look nice, too.”

“Don’t worry,” Vicki said, “I’ll lend you some clothes. You go shower
and change now. I will, too, but first I must make some telephone
calls.”

She telephoned La Guardia Airport and asked for the “Lost and Found”
Desk.

“Hello, this is the Federal Airlines stewardess,” Vicki said into the
telephone, “who turned in a gold charm, inscribed Dorothy. One of my
passengers lost it. Can you tell me whether anyone has ever claimed it?”

“It’s still here,” the clerk told her. “No one has even inquired about
it, so far as I know.”

That confirmed her suspicion--the owner was _afraid_ to come for it.
The reason why might prove interesting.

Next, she telephoned the Bryants’ house. Mrs. Bryant was surprised
and pleased to hear from her. Vicki asked whether she could come over
to see them, and added that she’d like to bring a friend to meet them.
“Soon, please? It’s important.”

“We’d be delighted to see you and your friend,” said Mrs. Bryant, “but
it can’t be this morning. We’re expecting guests for lunch at twelve
thirty. Why don’t you and your friend come at two?”

“At two,” Vicki repeated. She longed to ask whether the luncheon guests
would include Mr. Dorn, or whether the Bryants had heard from Dorn
yesterday or today. But she couldn’t very well ask. “We’ll be there at
two. Thank you very much, Mrs. Bryant.”

Lucy had come in, wearing a bathrobe, and heard Vicki make the
appointment. She looked woebegone, still lost. Vicki had to encourage
her.

“Yes, I know my grandparents want me,” Lucy said excitedly, “but the
other ‘Lucy’--Is she more attractive than I am?”

“Not nearly as likable,” Vicki said to soothe her.

“I can’t help feeling nervous, though, especially since you’ve told me
what Mr. Dorn’s been up to,” Lucy said.

“Come on. Let’s find you some clothes that will fit you and be
becoming.”

Vicki borrowed from her own and Jean’s wardrobes. She made herself
presentable, then Mrs. Duff gave them a quick lunch. As they ate, the
girls debated whether Lucy still had, in certain ways, the hardest part
of her ordeal to struggle through.

On the way over to the Bryants’, Lucy was silent and preoccupied. She
wore the silver ring, and had the family documents in her purse. When
she saw the mansion her grandparents lived in, she hesitated. Vicki
took her hand and escorted her up the marble steps.

“I’ll never fit in here,” Lucy whispered, as they followed the butler
toward the room with the parakeets.

“Yes, you will,” Vicki whispered back. “Wait and see.”

Mr. and Mrs. Bryant were waiting for them. Vicki’s heart sank when she
saw that ‘Lucy’--the false Lucy--was with them. She had wanted so much
to talk to them alone! Mrs. Bryant rose and came forward to greet the
two girls.

“How nice to see you, Vicki. And I’m so glad you’ve brought your
friend. I asked our Lucy to stay and meet her.”

The true Lucy stared at the impostor. There was no real resemblance
between them, except that both were brown-haired, around the same age,
and either Lucy might have once been the little girl in the snapshot.
The true Lucy must have seen the silver ring on the other Lucy’s hand,
for she thrust her hand in her pocket to hide her own silver ring.
Vicki took her friend’s arm, to give her courage.

As Mr. Bryant and the sophisticated-looking girl rose from the sofa,
Vicki said, “This is my friend from San Francisco, Lucy Rowe.” It took
all her courage to come right out and say that. She watched the false
Lucy closely.

“Lucy Rowe!” Mrs. Bryant exclaimed, and a look of wonder crossed her
face.

“What a coincidence,” the other girl said, after a pause. “How do you
do, Miss Rowe?”

Lucy was unable to speak. She looked into Mrs. Bryant’s face with her
feelings naked in her eyes. Marshall Bryant said:

“Quite a coincidence, eh, Miss Vicki? Two girls with the same name.
Well, well. Let’s all sit down, anyway.” He sat down heavily. “I ate
too much lunch.”

Lucy stared at her grandfather. She stayed as close as she could to
Vicki, her hand still in her pocket.

“How odd that we’ve never met,” the false Lucy said smoothly to the
true Lucy. “I’m from San Francisco, too, you know.”

“It--it _is_ quite a coincidence, isn’t it?” Mrs. Bryant said shakily.

Vicki drew a deep breath and said what sooner or later had to be said.
“It’s more than a coincidence, Mrs. Bryant. This young woman is--is
your granddaughter, and I can--”

“That’s preposterous!” the false Lucy exclaimed. She was furious. “_I_
am the Bryants’ granddaughter, and I resent--”

“--and I can prove it,” Vicki went on evenly. “There has been a
terrible mistake here. If one can call it a mistake.”

Marshall Bryant snorted. “Young lady, you’re having a pipe dream.
Thurman Dorn is a good man, a good lawyer. He doesn’t make mistakes. Do
you think I’d hire an incompetent man?”

Vicki was shaking all over. “It isn’t simply a mistake, Mr. Bryant.
Forgive me for contradicting you, but Mr. Dorn has deliberately brought
you the wrong girl.”

“Rot!” the big man said, and the false Lucy drew herself up in scorn.
Only Mrs. Bryant, her hands trembling so badly that she had to clasp
them, said to the newcomer:

“Tell me, my dear. Do you believe yourself to be our granddaughter?”

Slowly Lucy drew her hand out of her pocket and extended it. “Here is
the ring you gave my mother. And here are photographs of us all--and a
letter you wrote my mother--”

The false Lucy laughed. No one took the things Lucy offered. She
stood there abashed. The false Lucy cried, “Why, Grandpa, they’re
fakes--forgeries, that’s all.” Mrs. Bryant glanced back and forth
between the two Lucys, bewildered and hurt. Finally she reached out and
took the photographs and letters, and examined them.

“Marshall,” she said, “I did write this letter to Eleanor.” He made a
gesture of disbelief. Mrs. Bryant turned to the newcomer. “Where did
you get this letter?”

“Mother gave it to me. Just as she gave me this ring.”

“I also have my mother’s ring.” The false Lucy indignantly held up her
hand with the silver ring. She was still assured, but her face had
turned a sickly white.

Marshall Bryant exploded. “Someone here is lying! If you think I’ll set
aside the detailed proof of my lawyer, and reject this lovely young
woman we’re so fond of--if you expect me to take the word of a girl
I’ve never seen or heard of before--Why, it _is_ preposterous! Vicki,
where in the world did you find this girl, and what in the world are
you thinking of?”

Vicki said as bravely as she could, “Mr. Bryant, I have _proof_ that
she is your granddaughter, if you’ll only listen to me.”

“I think we’d better listen, Marshall,” said Mrs. Bryant.
“I--er--before Mr. Dorn had found Lucy, I requested our young
friend--since she sometimes flies in and out of San Francisco--to see
whether she could learn anything about our granddaughter.”

“You did!” Marshall Bryant turned to Vicki. “And you actually
investigated? But you’re not a trained investigator.”

“Just the same, please listen to what I found out,” Vicki pleaded.

The butler came in to say that Mr. Thurman Dorn was at the door, and
asked whether the Bryants would see him.

“We certainly will see him!” Mr. Bryant said. “Right away! Lucky for us
he’s here.”

Mrs. Bryant murmured that this seemed to be their day for coincidences.
Vicki said, “This is no coincidence, either, Mrs. Bryant. Mr. Dorn has
just flown in from San Francisco where he was yesterday--intending to
stop me from bringing Lucy to you.”

Marshall Bryant stared at her as if she were out of her mind, and the
false Lucy smiled pityingly.

They waited for Dorn. Lucy said to Vicki, very low, “This is scarcely
the reception I’d dreamed of.”

Dorn came in. His suit was rumpled, as if he had slept in it all night.
However, he was as self-possessed as ever, and gave Vicki and her Lucy
a look of utter contempt.

“I see these two fakers beat me here,” he said. “Good afternoon, Mrs.
Bryant, Lucy. How are you, sir? May I impose on your hospitality and
ask for some hot coffee? I’ve just flown to San Francisco and back on
your behalf. I flew all last night on a wretchedly slow coach plane, a
long, roundabout Dallas-Memphis local,” he said disgustedly. “The only
plane I could get on last night without a reservation--”

He sank into a chair. Vicki and Lucy exchanged glances. Getting here
before Dorn hadn’t done them much good. Marshall Bryant spoke to him
sympathetically while Mrs. Bryant ordered the coffee.

Vicki decided to attack Dorn before he could attack her.

“Mr. Dorn, I’ve found out how your mother, Mrs. Heath, lured Lucy out
of San Francisco--”

“Your mother?” said Mr. Bryant in surprise.

“--and kept Lucy virtually a prisoner in--”

“Stop lying!” Dorn ordered. “You’re a ridiculous little amateur
detective who’s been meddling--”

“--prisoner in a lonely house near the Sierra Nevadas, until I got
her out of there yesterday! And that’s where you were yesterday, Mr.
Dorn--in Pine Top!”

Dorn’s eyes narrowed. The false Lucy kept perfectly still. The lawyer
retorted:

“Miss Barr, you evidently are stupid and irresponsible. Perhaps this
girl with you is, too. Dreaming up some fantastic tale! Prisoner!” He
turned to Mr. Bryant. “What has she told you?”

Mrs. Bryant answered. “They showed us another silver ring, and these
photographs and letters.”

Dorn smiled dryly. “Documents can be forged, or stolen. A silver ring
can be copied, too, by a clever jeweler.” He turned to the true Lucy
and thundered at her, “How did you manage to steal and forge these
things?”

As Lucy drew back in fright, Vicki said:

“Any stealing and forging that was done, _you_ did. From the Bryants’
safe here in their house. You borrowed their family documents and the
ring--to ‘study.’ You said--”

Both Bryants were listening to her now. Vicki turned to them.

“There’s a minister in San Francisco, a Mr. Hall, who’s known Jack and
Eleanor Rowe, and Lucy, ever since Lucy was born. Would you take _his_
word?”

Mrs. Bryant gasped. “What else did you find out? Mr. Dorn, why did you
never mention the minister to us?”

“Because there is no such person in their family history,” he said
boldly. “Lucy”--he turned toward the false Lucy--“did you ever know a
minister named Hall?”

“No, our minister’s name was Dr. John Sands.”

“Ah, you see!” Marshall Bryant said with satisfaction. “I shall get in
touch with Dr. Sands.”

“I wish, Grandpa,” said the false Lucy, “that Dr. Sands was still
alive. He’d tell you the truth.”

The true Lucy said suddenly, “Ask Mr. Hall. I’ll give you his address
and telephone number.”

Marshall Bryant eyed her distrustfully, but his wife said, “You haven’t
answered my question, Vicki. What else did you find out?”

Dorn tried to prevent Vicki from speaking. He heaped her with scorn and
flatly denied all allegations--but Mrs. Bryant insisted.

Vicki started to enumerate her points: the so-called Lucy had not
worked for Whitney Decorators because no such firm had ever existed.
Her alleged doctor, Dr. Alice James, did not exist. The addresses where
she’d said she lived did not exist.

“Lies, lies!” Dorn said to Mr. Bryant. “I visited every one of those
persons and places myself. You have my word for it.”

Marshall Bryant nodded. Vicki said to him:

“Mr. Dorn is the one who’s lying. You have _only_ his word for these
things, and he and his mother and this girl he misrepresents to be your
granddaughter--they’re all in collusion together.”

“I’ll take you to court for libel, Vicki Barr!” Dorn fairly shouted.

She ignored that, and appealed to the Bryants. “Send an impartial
investigator to San Francisco, or go yourselves. You’ll find out from
the Interstate Insurance Company that _that’s_ where Lucy worked, ever
since she got out of school. Talk to Mr. Hall. Talk to Jill Joseph who
lives in Lucy’s old house in Sutro Heights--she and her parents, the
Rossiters, knew Lucy’s parents--”

“Ridiculous,” said Dorn, with a little laugh. “Perhaps this other
girl’s name actually is Lucy Rowe--though I doubt it--but even if it
is, that does not make her your granddaughter and your heir. Can’t you
see how easy it is for an unscrupulous girl to claim to be your kin
whom you’ve never seen? A crude attempt, I must say.”

Vicki saw that she was getting nowhere. The more points she raised, the
more Dorn, with a lawyer’s great verbal skill, twisted and bypassed
them. He managed to make Vicki’s statements appear implausible. He
enumerated proofs of his own correctness. Lucy, sitting beside her, was
numb with misery.

Vicki looked at the false Lucy and had an inspiration. She addressed
her directly, sharply:

“See here, Dorothy, I know a good deal about you--”

The false Lucy started.

“Yes, I know it was you who lost the gold charm inscribed Dorothy on my
plane that day. I know you came here from Chicago, not San Francisco--”

“I didn’t--”

“Her name isn’t Dorothy,” Dorn broke in.

“--and I know,” Vicki kept on, “that you arrived _two days earlier_
than you pretended to the Bryants. Where were you those two days?”

“Lies,” Dorn said. “She--”

Mrs. Bryant turned to the agitated girl. “Two days earlier? Is this
true?”

“Don’t you know,” Vicki kept at the girl, “that impersonating another
person is a crime and you can go to jail for it?”

“I’m not--I didn’t--” the fake Lucy stammered.

“You’d better tell the truth,” Marshall Bryant warned her.

The false Lucy burst into tears. “He talked me into doing it,” she
cried. “Thurman said as soon as we were married, my name would be Dorn
and no one would ever know of this impersonation. Calling myself Lucy
Rowe was just for a little while--”

Marshall Bryant in his anger was having difficulty in breathing. Vicki
feared he might suffer another heart attack. “Just for a little while,”
he repeated heavily. “While you tricked us into believing that you were
our granddaughter, eh? I suppose you planned to keep up the pretense
and call yourself Lucy indefinitely. Only now you’ve lost your nerve!”

“Thurman never told me that there was a real Lucy Rowe; he never told
me I’d be cheating someone,” the other girl asserted, weeping. “Don’t
blame me! He and his mother told me that Lucy was dead, only you didn’t
know it, and that we might as well have the inheritance for ourselves
instead of letting some stupid charities have it. Thurman and Mrs.
Heath are to blame, not me.” Dorn tried to break in, but the girl went
on half hysterically. “They said that with my dramatic school training
and being a quick study, I could easily play Lucy’s part--”

“You’re telling half-truths,” Dorn said. “You never objected to
becoming rich, did you?”

“Keep quiet, both of you,” Marshall Bryant ordered. The old man turned
toward Vicki. “What’s this about Dorn’s mother?”

“Yes, didn’t you once tell us,” Mrs. Bryant asked the young lawyer,
“that your mother in Chicago was widowed and had remarried? What is
your mother’s name?” Dorn tugged hard at his mustache and refused to
answer. “Mr. Dorn,” Mrs. Bryant reminded him, “we can find out from
your law firm.”

Dorn muttered, “Her name is Heath. Elizabeth Heath. She’s a widow for
the second time; she’s alone except for me.”

“So you thought you’d provide for your mother, yourself, and your
fiancée at my expense,” Marshall Bryant said bitterly. “No wonder you
were in such a hurry to have me sign over a parcel of stocks and bonds
to Lucy--Dorothy--whatever her name is.” The girl gave her name, very
low: Dorothy Clinton. “Well, I’ll rescind that immediately!”

“About Mrs. Heath,” Mrs. Bryant said. “She actually kept this
girl, our--our granddaughter”--it was hard for her to reverse her
thinking--“out of sight?”

“Yes, on a pretense of a job,” Vicki answered. “Not only that! They
also planned to get her to go abroad and maybe never return.”

The Bryants both caught their breaths. Mr. Bryant got up and pulled at
the wall cord to summon the butler. “I’m going to call the police,” he
said.

“Wait just a minute, sir,” Dorn said. “You still have no final proof of
who this girl is.”

“I have proof!” the true Lucy spoke up. “I have some proof with me and
much more if I can get my things back from Mrs. Heath. Besides, I’m
sure Mr. Hall and some of my San Francisco friends and old teachers
will come East to vouch for me. They’ve known me all my life, and known
my mother and father, too.”

“All right, all right,” the elderly man said, and passed his hand over
his eyes. No one except Vicki noticed the butler waiting at the door.
Mrs. Bryant stared dazedly at Dorn.

“Maybe you’d better start your explanations with the very beginning of
this rotten scheme,” Marshall Bryant said. “You’re going to have to
explain to us--and the police--sooner or later.”

Dorn put his head in his hands. “Very well, I will.” Then he said, “I
have some papers in my brief case in the hall, sir”--Dorn stood up--“if
you’ll permit me to get them.”

Suddenly he seized the false Lucy by the hand, and they ran out of the
room. The butler was so stunned by surprise that he was motionless. So
was everyone for a few seconds--until Vicki sprang to her feet. “Don’t
let them get away!” She and the butler ran after them. She saw Dorn and
the girl racing down the marble steps and along the street.

Vicki and the Bryants’ man tore after them. They were heading toward a
taxicab waiting at the curb a few houses up. Vicki saw a gray-haired
woman in the taxi who looked familiar. Mrs. Heath!

“Driver!” Vicki called out. “Don’t take those people! They’re
criminals!”

“Catch that man!” the butler shouted.

The taxi driver jumped out and caught Dorn. He struggled to tear free,
while Dorothy screamed at the butler to let her go. Vicki reached Mrs.
Heath just as the woman tried to slip away. Out of nowhere a policeman
appeared on the run.

“What’s all the shouting about?” he demanded. “What’s the matter here?”

From the top of his house steps Marshall Bryant told them all to come
into the house. “Pay the driver his fare,” he directed the butler, “so
he can go.” The policeman herded the rest of them into the house, with
Dorothy screaming now at Dorn. Vicki walked in beside Mrs. Heath who
looked as if she, too, had slept in her clothes last night. Mrs. Heath
scornfully would not even glance in Vicki’s direction.

They all sat down in the room with the parakeets, where Mrs. Bryant and
Lucy waited together. Marshall Bryant explained the situation briefly
to the policeman, who said:

“You’d better phone the precinct for a couple of detectives, Mr.
Bryant. This is out of my jurisdiction. I’ll stay until they get here,
though.”

Mr. Bryant instructed the butler to telephone. Then he said to Dorn:
“Talk!”

[Illustration]

Thurman Dorn sat crumpled in a chair, head bent. He plucked at his
fingers as he almost inaudibly told the whole story.

[Illustration]

He had always had to struggle along and economize, he said, and he felt
that as an educated man he was entitled to more than a small-salaried
job. His mother and his fiancée, too, were ambitious and resentful of
“scrimping along.” They felt they were entitled to wealth just as much
as people like the Bryants. Thurman Dorn was determined to get rich as
quickly as possible. His attitude was “Once you have a great deal of
money, people won’t care or dare ask how you acquired it.”

When the Bryants engaged him to search for their granddaughter and
heir whom they had never seen, Dorn calculated this was his main
chance. The Bryant fortune was so big that he was willing to risk
committing a crime. He believed that his cleverness and knowledge of
the law would protect him. And he believed he had evolved a foolproof
scheme: to present his fiancée to the Bryants as their unknown
granddaughter, then marry her and through her gain the Bryant fortune.
He flew to Chicago and talked his mother and Dorothy into the scheme.

First, though, Dorn had to learn whether Lucy Rowe could be gotten out
of the way. He and Mrs. Heath went on to San Francisco in mid-January
and learned--something the Bryants did not then know--that Jack Rowe
had died two years earlier. This left Lucy alone in the world, and
suited Dora’s scheme perfectly. Dorn also learned that Lucy was working
as a secretary at Interstate, had moved several times in the past few
years, and had just moved into the women’s hotel.

The next step was for Mrs. Heath to move to the Hotel Alcott, strike
up an acquaintance with Lucy, and offer her a job out of town or
“traveling.” At the same time, Mrs. Heath learned a great deal more
about Lucy and passed the information along to Dorn. Meanwhile, Dorn
located a well-hidden house in the back country and rented it and a car
for Mrs. Heath.

Then Dorn flew alone to Chicago, where for two days he coached Dorothy
in the role of Lucy. To do this, he used the information gained
by Mrs. Heath, and by himself in talking with the Bryants. Dorothy
memorized certain facts of Lucy’s life and acted out a personality
designed to please the Bryants. Dorn carefully supplied her with a
story about Lucy’s recent past. He promised Dorothy further advice on
the role of Lucy.

Dorn then flew on to New York, and reported to the Bryants that he
could not yet find their granddaughter who was away on a month’s trip.
He was allowing his mother time to get Lucy out of San Francisco and
into hiding. He also borrowed from the Bryants, from the safe in their
house, family letters and photographs and Mrs. Bryant’s silver ring,
ostensibly to “study” them.

Actually Dorn in the next hour had the photographs and letters
photostated, and he mailed them to Dorothy in Chicago to study for
developing her role. The same day he took the silver ring to a jeweler
and had it sketched to be copied. Within a few days the third silver
ring was ready and he mailed it to Dorothy. Meantime, Dorn had promptly
returned all the originals to the Bryants.

The rest of their scheme was to persuade Lucy to leave the United
States and stay abroad.

Unfortunately for them, Vicki had observed the false Miss L. Rowe
on her Chicago-New York flight. By that time Dorothy had devised a
make-up and hair style which helped her to resemble, superficially,
the faces in the Bryant family photographs. Dorn, who had never taken
Vicki seriously and did not bother to remember with what airline she
was a stewardess, never told Dorothy to stay off Federal Airlines. On
Dorothy’s part, it was a piece of carelessness that on that flight
she had worn, and lost, the gold charm inscribed with her own name.
Arriving in New York on a Tuesday, Dorothy went to a hotel, and on that
day and Wednesday, she and Dorn held a final, thorough rehearsal of her
role. On Thursday, Dorn brought her to the Bryants, saying, “Here is
your granddaughter who has just flown in from San Francisco.” Dorothy
had acted her role so convincingly that the Bryants did not doubt this
charming girl was truly their granddaughter.

“That’s all,” Dorn finished. His voice sounded hollow. “My second trip
to San Francisco was just for show, so that I could come back and say
‘I’ve found your granddaughter.’”

“Lies from start to finish,” Marshall Bryant said angrily. “I’ll see
that the three of you pay for this! What a fool you’ve been, Dorn! You
threw aside a promising career with Steele and Wilbur--one of the most
reputable law firms in the country. When your employers hear about the
vicious scheme--”

Two men quietly came into the room.

“We’re precinct detectives,” one of them said, and they showed their
identification. “We’ve been standing in the hall and heard the whole
thing.”

“Can you arrest these three swindlers at once?” Marshall Bryant
demanded. “For what they’ve done to my wife and me and to an innocent
girl?”

“Yes, sir,” said the detective. “You are under arrest, Dorn, and so are
you two women, on a conspiracy charge.”

“I know my rights,” Dorn asserted. “I’m a lawyer, and you can’t--”

“I can,” said the detective. “Let me quote the law to you, Mr. Dorn.
The unlawful acts you three persons planned to commit, and in part did
commit, are fraud, misrepresentation, and obtaining money or property
under false pretenses.”

“I object, I vehemently object!” Dorn said. “We may have planned it,
but we haven’t actually obtained the inheritance.”

“That’s beside the point,” the detective said. “Quote: ‘Persons
agreeing together to commit a crime can be prosecuted for _conspiracy_.
In a conspiracy it does not matter whether the unlawful act agreed upon
is carried out or not.’ You’re under arrest for conspiracy. Get up. All
three of you.”

Dorn shrugged and said no more. He, Mrs. Heath, and Dorothy stood up.
The false Lucy pulled the silver ring off her finger and bitterly threw
it at Dorn.

Marshall Bryant said, “You’re being arrested for conspiracy, but I’m
going to bring action against you in the courts for a whole lot more.
For fraud and misrepresentation, and for detention of Lucy.”

“They’ll draw heavy sentences,” the detective said. “All right, get
going.”

When they were gone, the Bryants and Lucy and Vicki were unable to
speak for a few minutes. They looked at one another.

“Miserable business,” Marshall Bryant growled.

Mrs. Bryant went to sit next to Lucy, and put her arm around her. “My
child, you don’t have to be afraid any more.”

“Nor alone any more?” Lucy asked timidly.

“Nor alone any more,” the grandmother answered. “Will she, Marshall? We
shall make up to you for all the hard things you’ve been through. Tell
me, my dear, did your mother have a pet name for you?”

“Yes, it was Lucinda,” Lucy said. “Sometimes Lucinda Belle, just for
fun.”

“That used to be your grandfather’s special name for _me_” Mrs. Bryant
said, and both the old people smiled at Lucy.

Mrs. Bryant leaned forward to touch Vicki’s hand. “Vicki, how can we
ever thank you?” she said. “You and Lucy and all of us must always be
friends.”

Vicki smiled as she looked at Lucy’s happy face. “I think we will be,”
she said.




Transcriber’s Note:

The 1960 copyright date on this book was not renewed so is now in the
public domain in the United States of America.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Silver Ring Mystery, by Helen Wells

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SILVER RING MYSTERY ***

***** This file should be named 53448-0.txt or 53448-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/3/4/4/53448/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
